Privacy Policy
Last modified: October 20, 2011 (view archived versions)

This Privacy Policy applies to all of the products, services and websites offered by Google Inc. or its subsidiaries or affiliated companies except Postini (Postini Privacy Policy). Sometimes, we may post product specific privacy notices or Help Center materials to explain our products in more detail.

If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, please feel free to contact us through our website or write to us at

Privacy Matters
c/o Google Inc.
1600 Amphitheatre Parkway
Mountain View, California, 94043
USA
Information we collect and how we use it

We may collect the following types of information:

Information you provide – When you sign up for a Google Account, we ask you for personal information. We may combine the information you submit under your account with information from other Google services or third parties in order to provide you with a better experience and to improve the quality of our services. For certain services, we may give you the opportunity to opt out of combining such information. You can use the Google Dashboard to learn more about the information associated with your Account. If you are using Google services in conjunction with your Google Apps Account, Google provides such services in conjunction with or on behalf of your domain administrator. Your administrator will have access to your account information including your email. Consult your domain administrator’s privacy policy for more information.
Cookies – When you visit Google, we send one or more cookies to your computer or other device. We use cookies to improve the quality of our service, including for storing user preferences, improving search results and ad selection, and tracking user trends, such as how people search. Google also uses cookies in its advertising services to help advertisers and publishers serve and manage ads across the web and on Google services.
Log information – When you access Google services via a browser, application or other client our servers automatically record certain information. These server logs may include information such as your web request, your interaction with a service, Internet Protocol address, browser type, browser language, the date and time of your request and one or more cookies that may uniquely identify your browser or your account.
User communications – When you send email or other communications to Google, we may retain those communications in order to process your inquiries, respond to your requests and improve our services. When you send and receive SMS messages to or from one of our services that provides SMS functionality, we may collect and maintain information associated with those messages, such as the phone number, the wireless carrier associated with the phone number, the content of the message, and the date and time of the transaction. We may use your email address to communicate with you about our services.
Affiliated Google Services on other sites – We offer some of our services on or through other web sites. Personal information that you provide to those sites may be sent to Google in order to deliver the service. We process such information under this Privacy Policy.
Third Party Applications – Google may make available third party applications, such as gadgets or extensions, through its services. The information collected by Google when you enable a third party application is processed under this Privacy Policy. Information collected by the third party application provider is governed by their privacy policies.
Location data – Google offers location-enabled services, such as Google Maps and Latitude. If you use those services, Google may receive information about your actual location (such as GPS signals sent by a mobile device) or information that can be used to approximate a location (such as a cell ID).
Unique application number – Certain services, such as Google Toolbar, include a unique application number that is not associated with your account or you. This number and information about your installation (e.g., operating system type, version number) may be sent to Google when you install or uninstall that service or when that service periodically contacts our servers (for example, to request automatic updates to the software).
Other sites – This Privacy Policy applies to Google services only. We do not exercise control over the sites displayed as search results, sites that include Google applications, products or services, or links from within our various services. These other sites may place their own cookies or other files on your computer, collect data or solicit personal information from you.
In addition to the above, we may use the information we collect to:

Provide, maintain, protect, and improve our services (including advertising services) and develop new services; and
Protect the rights or property of Google or our users.
If we use this information in a manner different than the purpose for which it was collected, then we will ask for your consent prior to such use.

Google processes personal information on our servers in the United States of America and in other countries. In some cases, we process personal information outside your own country.

Choices

You can use the Google Dashboard to review and control the information stored in your Google Account.

Most browsers are initially set up to accept cookies, but you can reset your browser to refuse all cookies or to indicate when a cookie is being sent. However, some Google features and services may not function properly if your cookies are disabled.

Google uses the DoubleClick advertising cookie on AdSense partner sites and certain Google services to help advertisers and publishers serve and manage ads across the web. You can view and manage your ads preferences associated with this cookie by accessing the Ads Preferences Manager. In addition, you may choose to opt out of the DoubleClick cookie at any time by using DoubleClick’s opt-out cookie.

Information sharing

Google only shares personal information with other companies or individuals outside of Google in the following limited circumstances:

We have your consent. We require opt-in consent for the sharing of any sensitive personal information.
We provide such information to our subsidiaries, affiliated companies or other trusted businesses or persons for the purpose of processing personal information on our behalf. We require that these parties agree to process such information based on our instructions and in compliance with this Privacy Policy and any other appropriate confidentiality and security measures.
We have a good faith belief that access, use, preservation or disclosure of such information is reasonably necessary to (a) satisfy any applicable law, regulation, legal process or enforceable governmental request, (b) enforce applicable Terms of Service, including investigation of potential violations thereof, (c) detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security or technical issues, or (d) protect against harm to the rights, property or safety of Google, its users or the public as required or permitted by law.
If Google becomes involved in a merger, acquisition, or any form of sale of some or all of its assets, we will ensure the confidentiality of any personal information involved in such transactions and provide notice before personal information is transferred and becomes subject to a different privacy policy.

Information security

We take appropriate security measures to protect against unauthorized access to or unauthorized alteration, disclosure or destruction of data. These include internal reviews of our data collection, storage and processing practices and security measures, including appropriate encryption and physical security measures to guard against unauthorized access to systems where we store personal data.

We restrict access to personal information to Google employees, contractors and agents who need to know that information in order to process it on our behalf. These individuals are bound by confidentiality obligations and may be subject to discipline, including termination and criminal prosecution, if they fail to meet these obligations.

Accessing and updating personal information

When you use Google services, we make good faith efforts to provide you with access to your personal information and either to correct this data if it is inaccurate or to delete such data at your request if it is not otherwise required to be retained by law or for legitimate business purposes. We ask individual users to identify themselves and the information requested to be accessed, corrected or removed before processing such requests, and we may decline to process requests that are unreasonably repetitive or systematic, require disproportionate technical effort, jeopardize the privacy of others, or would be extremely impractical (for instance, requests concerning information residing on backup tapes), or for which access is not otherwise required. In any case where we provide information access and correction, we perform this service free of charge, except if doing so would require a disproportionate effort. Because of the way we maintain certain services, after you delete your information, residual copies may take a period of time before they are deleted from our active servers and may remain in our backup systems. Please review the service Help Centers for more information.

Enforcement

Google complies with the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework and the U.S.-Swiss Safe Harbor Framework as set forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce regarding the collection, use, and retention of personal information from European Union member countries and Switzerland. Google has certified that it adheres to the Safe Harbor Privacy Principles of notice, choice, onward transfer, security, data integrity, access, and enforcement. To learn more about the Safe Harbor program, and to view Google’s certification, please visit the Safe Harbor website.

Google regularly reviews its compliance with this Privacy Policy. When we receive formal written complaints, it is Google’s policy to contact the complaining user regarding his or her concerns. We will cooperate with the appropriate regulatory authorities, including local data protection authorities, to resolve any complaints regarding the transfer of personal data that cannot be resolved between Google and an individual.

Changes to this Privacy Policy

Please note that this Privacy Policy may change from time to time. We will not reduce your rights under this Privacy Policy without your explicit consent. We will post any Privacy Policy changes on this page and, if the changes are significant, we will provide a more prominent notice (including, for certain services, email notification of Privacy Policy changes). We will also keep prior versions of this Privacy Policy in an archive for your review.

Data Use Policy
Date of Last Revision: September 23, 2011
I. Information we receive and how it is used
Information we receive about you
We receive a number of different types of information about you, including:
Your information
Your information is the information that's required when you sign up for the site, as well as the information you choose to share.
Registration information: When you sign up for Facebook, you are required to provide your name, email address, birthday, and gender.
Information you choose to share: Your information also includes the information you choose to share on Facebook, such as when you post a status update, upload a photo, or comment on a friend's post.
It also includes the information you choose to share when you take an action, such as when you add a friend, like a Page or a website, tag a place in your post, find friends using our contact importers, or indicate you are in a relationship.
 Your name, profile picture, networks, username and User ID are treated just like information you choose to make public. 
 Your birthday allows us to do things like show you age-appropriate content and advertisements.
Information others share about you
We receive information about you from your friends, such as when they tag you in a photo or at a location, or add you to a group.
We may also receive information about you from the games, applications, and websites you use, but only when you have given them permission. If you have given a game, application, or website permission to post information on your Wall, you can remove it from your “Apps you use” setting.
Other information we receive about you
We also receive other types of information about you:
We receive data about you whenever you interact with Facebook, such as when you look at another person's profile, send someone a message, search for a friend or a Page, click on an ad, or purchase Facebook Credits.
When you post things like photos or videos on Facebook, we may receive additional related data (or metadata), such as the time, date, and place you took the photo or video.
We receive data from the computer, mobile phone or other device you use to access Facebook. This may include your IP address, location, the type of browser you use, or the pages you visit. For example, we may get your GPS location so we can tell you if any of your friends are nearby.
We receive data whenever you visit a game, application, or website that uses Facebook Platform or visit a site with a Facebook feature (such as a social plugin). This may include the date and time you visit the site; the web address, or URL, you're on; technical information about the IP address, browser and the operating system you use; and, if you are logged in to Facebook, your User ID.
Sometimes we get data from our advertising partners, customers and other third parties that helps us (or them) deliver ads, understand online activity, and generally make Facebook better. For example, an advertiser may tell us how you responded to an ad on Facebook or on another site in order to measure the effectiveness of - and improve the quality of - those ads.
We also put together data from the information we already have about you and your friends. For example, we may put together data about you to determine which friends we should show you in your News Feed or suggest you tag in the photos you post. We may put together your current city with GPS and other location information we have about you to, for example, tell you and your friends about people or events nearby, or offer deals to you that you might be interested in. We may also put together data about you to serve you ads that might be more relevant to you.
 When we get your GPS location, we put it together with other location information we have about you (like your current city). But we only keep it until it is no longer useful to provide you services.
 We only provide data to our advertising partners or customers after we have removed your name or any other personally identifying information from it, or have combined it with other people's data in a way that it is no longer associated with you. Similarly, when we receive data about you from our advertising partners or customers, we keep the data for 180 days. After that, we combine the data with other people's data in a way that it is no longer associated with you.
Public information
When we use the phrase "public information" (which we sometimes refer to as "Everyone information"), we mean the information you choose to make public, as well as information that is always publicly available.
Information you choose to make public
Choosing to make your information public is exactly what it sounds like: anyone, including people off of Facebook, will be able to see it.
Choosing to make your information public also means that this information:
can be associated with you (i.e., your name, profile picture, Facebook profile, User ID, etc.) even off Facebook
can show up when someone does a search on Facebook or on a public search engine
will be accessible to the games, applications, and websites you and your friends use
will be accessible to anyone who uses our APIs such as our Graph API.
 Sometimes you will not be able to select an audience when you post something (like when you write on a Page's wall or comment on a news article that uses our comments plugin). This is because some types of posts are always public posts. As a general rule, you should assume that if you do not see a sharing icon, the information will be publicly available.
 When others share information about you, they can also choose to make it public. 
Information that is always publicly available
The types of information listed below are always publicly available, and are treated just like information you decided to make public.
Name: This helps your friends and family find you. If you are uncomfortable sharing your real name, you can always deactivate or delete your account.
Profile Pictures: This helps your friends and family recognize you. If you are uncomfortable making your profile picture public, you can always delete it by hovering over your photo and clicking "Change Picture."
Network: This helps you see whom you will be sharing information with before you choose "Friends and Networks" as a custom audience. If you are uncomfortable making your network public, you can leave the network.
Username and User ID: These allow you to give out a custom link to your profile or Page, receive email at your Facebook email address, and help make Facebook Platform possible.
Usernames and User IDs
A Username (or Facebook URL) is a custom link to your profile that you can give out to people or post on external websites. If you have selected a username, it will always appear in the URL on your profile page. If you have not selected a username, then the URL on your profile page will contain your User ID, which is what we use to identify your Facebook account.
If someone has your Username or User ID, they can use it to access information about you through the facebook.com website. For example, if someone has your Username, they can type facebook.com/Username into their browser and see your public information as well as anything else you've let them see. Similarly, someone with your Username or User ID can access information about you through our APIs, such as our Graph API. Specifically, they can access your public information, along with your age range, locale (or language) and gender.
If you do not want your information to be accessible through our APIs, you can turn off all Platform applications from your Privacy Settings. If you turn off Platform you will no longer be able to use any games or other applications.
 If you want to see information available about you through our Graph API, just type https://graph.facebook.com/[User ID or Username]?metadata=1 into your browser.
 When you sign up for a Facebook email address, you will first have to select a public username. Your email address will include your public username like so: username@facebook.com. You can control who can send you messages using your “How You Connect” settings. 
How we use the information we receive
We use the information we receive about you in connection with the services and features we provide to you and other users like your friends, the advertisers that purchase ads on the site, and the developers that build the games, applications, and websites you use. For example, we may use the information we receive about you:
as part of our efforts to keep Facebook safe and secure;
to provide you with location features and services, like telling you and your friends when something is going on nearby;
to measure or understand the effectiveness of ads you and others see;
to make suggestions to you and other users on Facebook, such as: suggesting that your friend use our contact importer because you found friends using it, suggesting that another user add you as a friend because the user imported the same email address as you did, or suggesting that your friend tag you in a picture they have uploaded with you in it.
Granting us this permission not only allows us to provide Facebook as it exists today, but it also allows us to provide you with innovative features and services we develop in the future that use the information we receive about you in new ways.
While you are allowing us to use the information we receive about you, you always own all of your information. Your trust is important to us, which is why we don't share information we receive about you with others unless we have:
received your permission;
given you notice, such as by telling you about it in this policy; or
removed your name or any other personally identifying information from it.
 We are able to suggest that your friend tag you in a picture by comparing your friend's pictures to information we've put together from the photos you've been tagged in. You can control whether we suggest that another user tag you in a photo using the “How Tags work” settings.
Deleting and deactivating your account
If you want to stop using your account, you can either deactivate or delete it.
Deactivate
Deactivating your account puts your account on hold. Other users will no longer see your profile, but we do not delete any of your information. Deactivating an account is the same as you telling us not to delete any information because you might want to reactivate your account at some point in the future. You can deactivate your account at: https://www.facebook.com/editaccount.php
Deletion
When you delete an account, it is permanently deleted from Facebook. It typically takes about one month to delete an account, but some information may remain in backup copies and logs for up to 90 days. You should only delete your account if you are sure you never want to reactivate it. You can delete your account at: https://www.facebook.com/help/contact.php?show_form=delete_account
II. Sharing and finding you on Facebook
Control each time you post
Whenever you post content (like a status update, photo or check-in), you can select a specific audience, or even customize your audience. To do this, simply click on the sharing icon and choose who can see it.
 Choose this icon if you want to make something Public. Choosing to make something public is exactly what it sounds like. It means that anyone, including people off of Facebook, will be able to see or access it.
 Choose this icon if you want to share with your Facebook Friends.
 Choose this icon if you want to Customize your audience. You can also use this to hide your post from specific people.
If you do not make a selection, your information will be shared with the last audience you selected. If you want to change your selection later you can do that too on your profile.
If you tag someone, that person and their friends can see your post no matter what audience you selected. The same is true when you approve a tag someone else adds to your post.
Always think before you post. Just like anything else you post on the web or send in an email, information you share on Facebook can be copied or re-shared by anyone who can see it.
 When you comment on or "like" someone else's post, or write on their Wall, that person gets to select the audience.
 You can control who can see the Facebook Pages you've "liked" by visiting your profile and clicking "Edit Profile."
 Sometimes you will not see a sharing icon when you post something (like when you write on a Page's wall or comment on a news article that uses our comments plugin). This is because some types of posts are always public posts. As a general rule, you should assume that if you do not see a sharing icon, the information will be publicly available.
Control over your profile
Whenever you add things to your profile you can select a specific audience, or even customize your audience. To do this, simply click on the sharing icon and choose who can see it.
 Choose this icon if you want to make something Public. Choosing to make something public is exactly what it sounds like. It means that anyone, including people off of Facebook, will be able to see or access it.
 Choose this icon if you want to share with your Facebook Friends.
 Choose this icon if you want to Customize your audience. You can also use this to hide the item on your profile from specific people.
When you select an audience for your friend list, you are only controlling who can see it on your profile. We call this a profile visibility control. This is because your friend list is always available to the games, applications and websites you use, and your friendships may be visible elsewhere (such as on your friends' profiles or in searches). For example, if you select "Only Me" as the audience for your friend list, but your friend sets her friend list to "Public," anyone will be able to see your connection on your friend's profile.
Similarly, if you choose to hide your gender, it only hides it on your profile. This is because we, just like the applications you and your friends use, need to use your gender to refer to you properly on the site.
When someone tags you in a post (such as a photo, status update or check-in), you can choose whether you want that post to appear on your profile. You can either approve each post individually or approve all posts by your friends. If you approve a post and later change your mind, you can remove it from your profile.
 To make it easier for your friends to find you, we allow anyone with your contact information (such as your email address or mobile number), to find you through Facebook search, as well as other tools we provide, such as contact importers.
 If you share your contact information (such as your email address or mobile number) with your friends, they may be able to use third party applications to sync that information with other address books, including ones on their mobile phones.
 Some things (like your name and profile picture) do not have sharing icons because they are always publicly available. As a general rule, you should assume that if you do not see a sharing icon, the information will be publicly available.
What your friends share about you
Tags
A tag is a link to your profile. For example, if you are tagged in a post (such as a photo or a status update), that post will contain a link to your profile. If someone clicks on the link, they will see your public information and anything else you let them see.
Anyone can tag you in anything. Once you are tagged in a post, you and your friends will be able to see it. For example, your friends may be able to see the post in their News Feed or when they search for you. It may also appear on your profile.
You can choose whether a post you've been tagged in appears on your profile. You can either approve each post individually or approve all posts by your friends. If you approve a post and later change your mind, you can always remove it from your profile.
If you do not want someone to tag you in their posts, we encourage you to reach out to them and give them that feedback. If that does not work, you can block them. This will prevent them from tagging you going forward.
 If you are tagged in a private space (such as a message or a group) only the people who can see the private space can see the tag. Similarly, it you are tagged in a comment, only the people who can see the comment can see the tag.
Groups
Your friends can add you to the Groups they are in. You can always leave a Group, which will prevent others from adding you to it again.
About Pages
Facebook Pages are public pages. Companies use Pages to share information about their products. Celebrities use Pages to talk about their latest projects. And communities use pages to discuss topics of interest, everything from baseball to the opera.
Because Pages are public, information you share with a Page is public information. This means, for example, that if you post a comment on a Page, that comment can be used by the Page owner off of Facebook, and anyone can see it.
When you "like" a Page, you create a connection to that Page. That connection is added to your profile and your friends may see it in their News Feeds. You may also receive updates from the Page in your News Feed and your messages. You can remove the Pages you've "liked" from your profile.
Some Pages contain content that comes directly from the Page owner. Page owners can do this through online plugins, such as an iframe, and it works just like the games and other applications you use through Facebook. Because this content comes directly from the Page owner, that Page may be able to collect information about you, just like any website.
III. Sharing with other websites and applications
About Facebook Platform
Facebook Platform (or simply Platform) refers to the way we help you share your information with the games, applications, and websites you and your friends use. Facebook Platform also lets you bring your friends with you, so you can connect with them off of Facebook. In these two ways, Facebook Platform helps you make your experiences on the web more personalized and social.
Remember that these games, applications and websites are created and maintained by other businesses and developers who are not part of Facebook, so you should always make sure to read their terms of service and privacy policies.
Controlling what information you share with applications
When you go to a game or application, or connect with a website using Facebook Platform, we give the game, application, or website (sometimes referred to as just "Applications" or "Apps") your User ID, as well your friends' User IDs (or your friend list).
Your friend list helps the application make your experience more social because it lets you find your friends on that application. Your User ID helps the application personalize your experience because it can connect your account on that application with your Facebook account, and it can access your public information. This includes the information you choose to make public, as well as information that is always publicly available. If the application needs additional information, it will have to ask you for specific permission.
The “Apps you use” setting lets you control the applications you use. You can see the permissions you have given these applications, as well as the last time an application accessed your information. You can also remove applications you no longer want, or turn off all Platform applications. When you turn all Platform applications off, your User ID is no longer given to applications, even when your friends use those applications. But you will no longer be able to use any games, applications or websites through Facebook.
 Applications also get your age range, locale, and gender when you and your friends visit them. Age range (e.g., 18-21) lets applications provide you with age-appropriate content. Locale (e.g., en-US) lets applications know what language you speak. Gender lets applications refer to you correctly. If you do not want applications to receive this information about you, you can turn off all Facebook applications using your Privacy Settings.
 Sometimes a game console, mobile phone, or other device might ask for permission to share specific information with the games and applications you use on that device (such as your public information). If you say okay, those applications will not be able to access any other information about you without asking specific permission from you or your friends.
 Instant Personalization sites receive your User ID and friend list when you visit them. 
Controlling what is shared when the people you share with use applications
Just like when you share information by email or elsewhere on the web, information you share on Facebook can be re-shared. This means that if you share something on Facebook, anyone who can see it can share it with others, including the games, applications, and websites they use.
Your friends and the other people you share information with often want to share your information with applications to make their experiences on those application more personalized and social. For example, one of your friends might want to use a music application that allows them to see what their friends are listening to. To get the full benefit of that application, your friend would want to give the application her friend list – which includes your User ID – so the application knows which of her friends is also using it. Your friend might also want to share the music you “like” on Facebook. If you have made that information public, then the application can access it just like anyone else. But if you’ve shared your likes with just your friends, the application could ask your friend for permission to share them.
You can control most of the information other people can share with applications from the “Apps and Websites” settings page. But these controls do not let you limit access to your public information and friend list.
If you want to completely block applications from getting your information, you will need to turn off all Platform applications. This means that you will no longer be able to use any games, applications or websites.
 If an application asks permission from someone else to access your information, the application will be allowed to use that information only in connection with the person that gave the permission and no one else.
Logging in to another site using Facebook
Facebook Platform also lets you log into other applications and websites using your Facebook account. When you log in using Facebook, we give the site your User ID, but we do not share your email address or password with that website.
If you already have an account on that website, the site may also be able to connect that account with your Facebook account. Sometimes it does this using what is called an "email hash", which is similar to searching for someone on Facebook using an email address. Only the email addresses in this case are encrypted so no email addresses are actually shared between Facebook and the website.
How it works
The website sends over an encrypted version of your email address, and we match it with a database of email addresses that we have also encrypted. If there is a match, then we tell the website the User ID associated with the email address. This way, when you log into the website using Facebook, the website can link your Facebook account to your account on that website.
About social plugins
Social plugins are buttons, boxes, and stories (such as the Like button) that other websites can use to present Facebook content to you and create more social and personal experiences for you. While you view these buttons, boxes, and stories on other sites, the content comes directly from Facebook.
If you make something public using a plugin, such as posting a public comment on a newspaper's website, then that website can access your comment (along with your User ID) just like everyone else.
 Websites that use social plugins can sometimes tell that you have engaged with the social plugin. For example, they may know that you clicked on a Like button in a social plugin.
 We receive data when you visit a site with a social plugin. We keep this data for 90 days. After that, we remove your name or any other personally identifying information from the data, or combine it with other people's data in a way that it is no longer associated with you.
About instant personalization
Instant personalization is a way for Facebook to help partner sites (such as Bing and Rotten Tomatoes) create a more personalized and social experience than a social plugin can offer. When you visit a site using instant personalization, it will know some information about you and your friends the moment you arrive. This is because instant personalization sites can access your User ID, your friend list, and your public information.
The first time you visit an instant personalization site, you will see a notification letting you know that the site has partnered with Facebook to provide a personalized experience.
The notification will give you the ability to disable or turn off instant personalization for that site. If you do that, that site is required to delete all of the information about you it received from Facebook. In addition, we will prevent that site from accessing your information in the future, even when your friends use that site.
If you decide that you do not want to experience instant personalization for all partner sites, you can disable instant personalization from the “Apps and Websites” settings page.
If you turn off instant personalization, partner sites will not be able to access your public information, even when your friends visit those sites.
 If you turn off an instant personalization site after you have been using it or visited it a few times (or after you have given it specific permission to access your data), it will not automatically delete your data. But the site is contractually required to delete your data if you ask it to.
How it works
To join the instant personalization program, a potential partner must enter into an agreement with us designed to protect your privacy. For example, this agreement requires that the partner delete your data if you turn off instant personalization when you first visit the site. It also prevents the partner from accessing any information about you until you or your friends visit its site.
Instant personalization partners sometimes use an email hash process to see if any of their users are on Facebook and get those users' User IDs. This process is similar to searching for someone on Facebook using an email address, except in this case the email addresses are encrypted so no actual email addresses are exchanged. The partner is also contractually required not to use your User ID for any purpose (other than associating it with your account) until you or your friends visit the site.
When you visit an instant personalization site, we provide the site with your User ID and your friend list (as well as your age range, locale, and gender). The site can then connect your account on that site with your friends' accounts to make the site instantly social. The site can also access public information associated with any of the User IDs it receives, which it can use to make the site instantly personalized. For example, if the site is a music site, it can access your music interests to suggest songs you may like, and access your friends' music interests to let you know what they are listening to. Of course it can only access you or your friends’ music interests if they are public. If the site wants any additional information, it will have to get your specific permission.
Public search engines
Your Public Search setting controls whether people who enter your name on a public search engine may see your public profile (including in sponsored results). You can find your Public Search setting on the “Apps and Websites” settings page. You can preview your public profile at: http://www.facebook.com/[Your Username or UserID]?p
 This setting does not apply to search engines that access your information as an application using Facebook Platform.
 If you turn your public search setting off and then search for yourself on a public search engine, you may still see a preview of your profile. This is because some search engines cache information for a period of time. You can learn more about how to request a search engine to remove you from cached information at: https://www.facebook.com/help/?faq=13323
IV. How Advertising Works
Personalized ads
We do not share any of your information with advertisers (unless, of course, you give us permission).
When an advertiser creates an ad on Facebook, they are given the opportunity to choose their audience by location, demographics, likes, keywords, and any other information we receive or can tell about you and other users. For example, an advertiser can choose to target 18 to 35 year-old women who live in the United States and like basketball.
Try this tool yourself to see one of the ways advertisers target ads and what information they see at: https://www.facebook.com/ads/create/
If the advertiser chooses to run the ad (also known as placing the order), we serve the ad to people who meet the criteria the advertiser selected, but we do not tell the advertiser who any of those people are. So, for example, if a person clicks on the ad, the advertiser might infer that the person is an 18-to-35-year-old woman who lives in the US and likes basketball. But we would not tell the advertiser who that person is.
After the ad runs, we provide advertisers with reports on how their ads performed. For example we give advertisers reports telling them how many users saw or clicked on their ads. But these reports are anonymous. We do not tell advertisers who saw or clicked on their ads.
 Advertisers sometimes place cookies on your computer in order to make their ads more effective. Learn more at: http://www.networkadvertising.org/managing/opt_out.asp
 Sometimes we allow advertisers to target a category of user, like a "moviegoer" or a "sci-fi fan." We do this by bundling characteristics that we believe are related to the category. For example, if a person "likes" the "Star Trek" Page and mentions "Star Wars" when they check into a movie theater, we may conclude that this person is likely to be a sci-fi fan.
Ads + social context
Facebook Ads are sometimes paired with social actions your friends have taken. For example, an ad for a sushi restaurant may be paired with a news story that one of your friends likes that restaurant's Facebook page.
This is the same type of news story that could show up in your News Feed, only we place it next to a paid advertisement to make that ad more relevant and interesting.
When you show up in one of these news stories, we will only pair it with ads shown to your friends. If you do not want to appear in stories paired with Facebook Ads, you can opt out using your “Edit social ads” setting.
 Learn what happens when you click "Like" on an advertisement or an advertiser's Facebook Page at: https://www.facebook.com/help/?faq=19399
 We may serve ads with social context (or serve just social context) on other sites. These work just like the ads we serve on Facebook - the advertisers do not receive any of your information.
 We sometimes allow businesses or anyone else to sponsor stories like the ones that show up in your News Feed, subject to the audience set for that story. While these are sponsored, they are different from ads because they don't contain a message from the person that sponsored them. Your friends will see these stories even if you have opted out of the "Show my social actions in Facebook Ads" setting 
 Your “Show my social actions in Facebook Ads” setting does not control ads about Facebook's services and features. 
 Games, applications and websites can serve ads directly to you if they have your User ID.
Sponsored stories
Many of the things you do on Facebook (like "liking" a Page) are posted to your Wall and shared in News Feed. But there's a lot to read in News Feed. That's why we allow people to "sponsor" your stories to make sure your friends see them. For example, if you RSVP to an event hosted by a local restaurant, that restaurant may want to make sure your friends see it so they can come too. If they do sponsor a story, that story will appear in the same place ads usually do under the heading "Sponsored Stories" or something similar. Only people that could originally see the story can see the sponsored story, and no personal information about you (or your friends) is shared with the sponsor.
Featured content
We like to tell you about some of the features your friends use on Facebook to help you have a better experience. For example, if your friend uses our friend finder tool to find more friends on Facebook, we may tell you about it to encourage you to use it as well. This of course means your friend may similarly see suggestions based on the things you do. But we will try to only show it to friends that could benefit from your experience.
V. Minors and safety
We take safety issues very seriously, especially with children, and we encourage parents to teach their children about safe internet practices. To learn more, visit our Safety Center.
To protect minors, we may put special safeguards in place (such as placing restrictions on the ability of adults to share and connect with them), recognizing this may provide minors a more limited experience on Facebook.
VI. Some other things you need to know
Safe harbor
Facebook complies with the EU Safe Harbor framework as set forth by the Department of Commerce regarding the collection, use, and retention of data from the European Union. As part of our participation in the Safe Harbor, we agree to resolve all disputes you have with us in connection with our policies and practices through TRUSTe. To view our certification, visit the U.S. Department of Commerce's Safe Harbor website at: https://safeharbor.export.gov/list.aspx
Responding to legal requests and preventing harm
We may share your information in response to a legal request (like a search warrant, court order or subpoena) if we have a good faith belief that the law requires us to do so. This may include responding to legal requests from jurisdictions outside of the United States where we have a good faith belief that the response is required by law in that jurisdiction, affects users in that jurisdiction, and is consistent with internationally recognized standards. We may also share information when we have a good faith belief it is necessary to: detect, prevent and address fraud and other illegal activity; to protect ourselves and you from violations of our Statement of Rights and Responsibilities; and to prevent death or imminent bodily harm. 
Access requests
We provide initial responses to access requests within a reasonable period of time, typically within thirty days. You can also download a copy of everything you've put into Facebook by visiting your “Account Settings” and clicking on “Download a copy of your Facebook data”.
Notifications and Other Messages
We may send you notifications and other messages using the contact information we have for you, like your email address. You can control most of the notifications you receive, including ones from Pages you like and applications you use, using your “Notifications” settings. 
Friend finder
We offer tools to help you upload your friends' contact information so that you can find your friends on Facebook, and invite friends who do not use Facebook to join. If you do not want us to store this information, visit this help page at: https://www.facebook.com/contact_importer/remove_uploads.php
If you give us your password, we will delete it after you upload your friends' contact information.
Invitations
When you invite a friend to join Facebook, we send a message on your behalf using your name, and up to two reminders. We may also include names and pictures of other people your friend might know on Facebook. The invitation will also give your friend the opportunity to opt out of receiving other invitations to join Facebook. 
Memorializing accounts
We may memorialize the account of a deceased person. When we memorialize an account we keep the profile on Facebook, but only let friends and family look at pictures or write on the user's Wall in remembrance. You can report a deceased person's profile at: https://www.facebook.com/help/contact.php?show_form=deceased
We also may close an account if we receive a formal request from the person's next of kin.
Cookies
Cookies are small pieces of data that we store on your computer, mobile phone or other device to make Facebook easier to use, make our advertising better, and to protect you (and Facebook). For example, we may use them to know you are logged in to Facebook, to help you use social plugins and share buttons, or to know when you are interacting with our advertising or Platform partners. We may also ask advertisers to serve ads to computers, mobile phones or other devices with a cookie placed by Facebook (although we would not share any other information with that advertiser). Most companies on the web use cookies (or similar technological methods), including our advertising and Platform partners. You can always remove or block cookies (such as by using the settings in your browser), but it may affect your ability to use Facebook. Learn more at: https://www.facebook.com/help/?page=176591669064814
Service Providers
We give your information to the people and companies that help us provide the services we offer. For example, we may use outside vendors to help host our website, serve photos and videos, process payments, or provide search results. In some cases we provide the service jointly with another company, such as the Facebook Marketplace. In all of these cases our partners must agree to only use your information consistent with the agreement we enter into with them, as well as this privacy policy.
Security
We do our best to keep your information secure, but we need your help. For more detailed information about staying safe on Facebook, visit the Facebook Security Page.
Change of Control
If the ownership of our business changes, we may transfer your information to the new owner so they can continue to operate the service. But they will still have to honor the commitments we have made in this privacy policy.
Notice of Changes
If we make changes to this Privacy Policy we will notify you by publication here and on the Facebook Site Governance Page. If the changes are material, we will provide you additional, prominent notice as appropriate under the circumstances. You can make sure that you receive notice directly by liking the Facebook Site Governance Page.
Opportunity to comment and vote
Unless we make a change for legal or administrative reasons, or to correct an inaccurate statement, we will give you seven (7) days to provide us with comments on the change. If we receive more than 7000 comments concerning a particular change, we will put the change up for a vote. The vote will be binding on us if more than 30% of all active registered users as of the date of the notice vote.

YouTube Privacy Notice

Updated as of December 8, 2010

The Google Privacy Policy describes how Google and its subsidiaries treat personal information when you use Google services, including information provided when you use YouTube. In addition, the following describes privacy practices specific to YouTube.

Personal Information
Browsing YouTube You can watch videos on YouTube without having a YouTube Account or a Google Account. You also can contact us through the YouTube Help Center or by emailing us directly without having to register for an account.

Your YouTube Account. For some activities on YouTube, like uploading videos, posting comments, flagging videos, or watching restricted videos, you need a YouTube or Google Account. We ask for some personal information when you create an account, including your email address and a password, which is used to protect your account from unauthorized access. A Google Account, additionally, allows you to access other Google services that require registration.

Usage Information. When you use YouTube, we may record information about your usage of the site, such as the channels, groups and favorites you subscribe to, which other users you communicate with, the videos you watch, the frequency and size of data transfers, and information you display about yourself as well as information you click on in YouTube (including UI elements, settings). If you are logged in, we may associate that information with your YouTube Account. In order to ensure the quality of our service to you, we may place a tag (also called a "web beacon") in HTML-based customer support emails or other communications with you in order to confirm delivery.

Content Uploaded to Site. Any personal information or video content that you voluntarily disclose online (e.g., video comments, your profile page) may be collected and used by others. If you download the YouTube Uploader, your copy includes a unique application number. This number, and information about your installation of the Uploader (version number, language) will be sent to YouTube when the Uploader automatically checks for updates and will be used to update your version of the Uploader.

Uses
If you submit personal information to YouTube, we may use that information to operate, maintain, and improve the features and functionality of YouTube, and to process any flagging activity or other communication you send to us.

We do not use your email address or other personal information to send commercial or marketing messages without your consent. We may use your email address without further consent for non-marketing or administrative purposes (such as notifying you of major YouTube changes or for customer service purposes). You also can choose how often YouTube sends you email updates in your YouTube Account settings page.

We use cookies, web beacons, and log file information to: (a) store information so that you will not have to re-enter it during your visit or the next time you visit YouTube; (b) provide custom, personalized content and information; (c) monitor the effectiveness of our marketing campaigns; (d) monitor aggregate metrics such as total number of visitors and pages viewed; and (e) track your entries, submissions, and status in promotions, sweepstakes, and contests.

Information That is Publicly Available
When you create a YouTube Account, some information about your YouTube Account and your account activity will be provided to other users of YouTube. This may include the date you opened your YouTube Account, the date you last logged into your YouTube Account, your age (if you choose to make it public), the country and the number of videos you have watched.

Your YouTube Account name, not your email address, is displayed to other users when you engage in certain activities on YouTube, such as when you upload videos or send messages through YouTube. Other users can contact you by leaving a message or comment on the site.

Any videos that you submit to YouTube may be redistributed through the internet and other media channels, and may be viewed by other YouTube users or the general public.

You may also choose to add personal information which may include your name, gender, profile picture or other details, that will be visible to other users on your YouTube Account channel page. If you choose to add certain features to your YouTube Account channel page, then these features and your activity associated with these features will be displayed to other users and may be aggregated and shared with your friends or other users. Such shared activity may include your favorite videos, videos you rated and videos that you have uploaded.

Your Choices
If you have a YouTube Account, you may update or correct your personal profile information, email preferences and privacy settings at any time by visiting your account profile page.

You may control the information that is available to other users and your confirmed friends at any time by editing your YouTube Account and the features that are included on your channel page. If you have enabled Active Sharing, other users may see that you, as identified by your account name, not your email address, are watching the same video.

You may, of course, decline to submit personal information through YouTube, in which case you can still view videos and explore YouTube, but YouTube may not be able to provide certain services to you. Some advanced YouTube features may use other Google services like Google Checkout or AdSense. The privacy notices of those services govern the use of your personal information associated with them.

Advertising on YouTube
YouTube strives to provide you with relevant and useful advertising and we use the DoubleClick cookie, as well as other third party ad serving systems, to do so. We may use a range of information including cookies, web beacons, IP addresses, usage data and other non-personal information about your computer or device (such as browser type and operating system) to provide you with relevant advertising. While you are logged in or logged out of your YouTube Account, we may also show you advertising based on non-personally identifiable information you have provided to us in your YouTube Account.

We use the DoubleClick cookie on YouTube to help advertisers and publishers serve and manage ads on this site and other Google and AdSense partner websites. Advertisers may serve ads based on interests and demographic categories associated with non-personally identifiable online activity, such as videos viewed, frequency of uploading or activity on other AdSense partner sites. Advertisers may also serve ads to you based on previous activity on that advertiser's website or based on non-personally identifiable information from other companies. This non-personally identifiable information is held separately from your YouTube Account data, or other personally identifying information in our possession.

You may view, edit and add to the categories used to provide you with interest-based advertising in the Ads Preferences Manager for the DoubleClick cookie. Your ads preferences will be respected across YouTube, AdSense partner sites and Google sites using the DoubleClick cookie to serve such ads. For more information about interest-based advertising and the Ads Preference Manager see our FAQ. To learn about the privacy policies of third parties that advertisers may use to display ads on YouTube, and to opt out, you can check out the Network Advertising Initiative opt-out page.

You also may choose to opt out of the DoubleClick cookie at any time. If you select the DoubleClick opt-out cookie, ads delivered to your browser by our ad-serving technology will not be served based on the DoubleClick cookie. Find more information here about opting out of the DoubleClick cookie.

Other third-party ad serving companies may display ads on YouTube, provided they comply with our ad serving requirements. YouTube does not provide any personal information to these third-party ad servers or ad networks without your consent. You should consult the respective privacy policies of these third-party ad servers or ad networks for more information on their practices and for instructions on how to opt-out of certain practices. YouTube's privacy policy does not apply to, and we cannot control the activities of, such other advertisers or web sites. Any data obtained by third-party ad servers subsequently shared with YouTube is maintained and dealt with by YouTube in accordance with this privacy policy.

More Information
Google adheres to the US Safe Harbor privacy principles. For more information about the Safe Harbor framework or our registration, see the Department of Commerce's web site.

For questions concerning the product or your account, please check out the Google Help page.

For more information about our privacy practices, go to Google's full privacy policy, or write to us at:

YouTube Privacy
901 Cherry Ave.
San Bruno, CA 94066
USA

WHAT THIS PRIVACY POLICY COVERS
Yahoo! takes your privacy seriously. Please read the following to learn more about our privacy policy.
The federal government and technology industry have developed practical tips to help you guard against Internet fraud, secure your computer and protect your personal information.

How Yahoo! Uses Your Personal Information
This policy covers how Yahoo! treats personal information that Yahoo! collects and receives, including information related to your past use of Yahoo! products and services. Personal information is information about you that is personally identifiable like your name, address, email address, or phone number, and that is not otherwise publicly available.

This privacy policy only applies to Yahoo!
This policy does not apply to the practices of companies that Yahoo! does not own or control, or to people that Yahoo! does not employ or manage. In addition, some companies that Yahoo! has acquired have their own, preexisting privacy policies which may be viewed on our acquired companies page.

Yahoo!'s participation in the Safe Harbor program
Yahoo! participates in the Safe Harbor program developed by the U.S. Department of Commerce and the European Union. To view our certification, visit the U.S. Department of Commerce's Safe Harbor Web site. For more information about Yahoo!'s participation in the Safe Harbor program, please visit our Safe Harbor details page.

Return to top

 

INFORMATION COLLECTION AND USE
General

Yahoo! collects personal information when you register with Yahoo!, when you use Yahoo! products or services, when you visit Yahoo! pages or the pages of certain Yahoo! partners, and when you enter promotions or sweepstakes. Yahoo! may combine information about you that we have with information we obtain from business partners or other companies.

When you register we ask for information such as your name, email address, birth date, gender, ZIP code, occupation, industry, and personal interests. For some financial products and services we might also ask for your address, Social Security number, and information about your assets. When you register with Yahoo! and sign in to our services, you are not anonymous to us.

Yahoo! collects information about your transactions with us and with some of our business partners, including information about your use of financial products and services that we offer.

Yahoo! automatically receives and records information from your computer and browser, including your IP address, Yahoo! cookie information, software and hardware attributes, and the page you request.

Yahoo! uses information for the following general purposes: to customize the advertising and content you see, fulfill your requests for products and services, improve our services, contact you, conduct research, and provide anonymous reporting for internal and external clients.

Children

When a child under age 13 attempts to register with Yahoo!, we ask the child to have a parent or guardian create a Yahoo! Family Account to obtain parental permission.

Yahoo! does not contact children under age 13 about special offers or for marketing purposes without a parent's permission.

Yahoo! does not ask a child under age 13 for more personal information, as a condition of participation, than is reasonably necessary to participate in a given activity or promotion.

Return to top

 

INFORMATION SHARING AND DISCLOSURE
Yahoo! does not rent, sell, or share personal information about you with other people or non-affiliated companies except to provide products or services you've requested, when we have your permission, or under the following circumstances:

We provide the information to trusted partners who work on behalf of or with Yahoo! under confidentiality agreements. These companies may use your personal information to help Yahoo! communicate with you about offers from Yahoo! and our marketing partners. However, these companies do not have any independent right to share this information.
We have a parent's permission to share the information if the user is a child under age 13. Parents have the option of allowing Yahoo! to collect and use their child's information without consenting to Yahoo! sharing of this information with people and companies who may use this information for their own purposes.
We respond to subpoenas, court orders, or legal process, or to establish or exercise our legal rights or defend against legal claims.
We believe it is necessary to share information in order to investigate, prevent, or take action regarding illegal activities, suspected fraud, situations involving potential threats to the physical safety of any person, violations of Yahoo!'s terms of use, or as otherwise required by law.
We transfer information about you if Yahoo! is acquired by or merged with another company. In this event, Yahoo! will notify you before information about you is transferred and becomes subject to a different privacy policy.
Yahoo! displays targeted advertisements based on personal information. Advertisers (including ad serving companies) may assume that people who interact with, view, or click targeted ads meet the targeting criteria—for example, women ages 18-24 from a particular geographic area.

Yahoo! does not provide any personal information to the advertiser when you interact with or view a targeted ad. However, by interacting with or viewing an ad you are consenting to the possibility that the advertiser will make the assumption that you meet the targeting criteria used to display the ad.
Yahoo! advertisers include financial service providers (such as banks, insurance agents, stock brokers and mortgage lenders) and non-financial companies (such as stores, airlines, and software companies).
Yahoo! works with vendors, partners, advertisers, and other service providers in different industries and categories of business. For more information regarding providers of products or services that you've requested please read our detailed reference links.

Return to top

 

COOKIES
Yahoo! may set and access Yahoo! cookies on your computer.

Yahoo! lets other companies that show advertisements on some of our pages set and access their cookies on your computer. Other companies' use of their cookies is subject to their own privacy policies, not this one. Advertisers or other companies do not have access to Yahoo!'s cookies.

Yahoo! uses web beacons to access Yahoo! cookies inside and outside our network of web sites and in connection with Yahoo! products and services.

Your Ability to Edit and Delete Your Account Information and Preferences

General
You can edit your Yahoo! Account Information, including your marketing preferences, at any time.

New categories of marketing communications might be added to the Marketing Preferences page from time to time. Users who visit this page can opt out of receiving future marketing communications from these new categories or they can unsubscribe by following instructions contained in the messages they receive.

We reserve the right to send you certain communications relating to the Yahoo! service, such as service announcements, administrative messages and the Yahoo! Newsletter, that are considered part of your Yahoo! account, without offering you the opportunity to opt out of receiving them.

You can delete your Yahoo! account by visiting our Account Deletion page. Please click here to read about information that might possibly remain in our archived records after your account has been deleted.

Children
Parents can review, edit, and delete information relating to their child's Yahoo! account using tools offered by Yahoo! Family Accounts.

If a parent chooses not to allow us to further collect or use a child's information, parents enrolled in Yahoo! Family Accounts can delete their child's account by signing into that child's account and then visiting our Account Deletion page. Please click here to read about information that might possibly remain in our archived records after your account has been deleted.

Return to top

 

CONFIDENTIALITY AND SECURITY
We limit access to personal information about you to employees who we believe reasonably need to come into contact with that information to provide products or services to you or in order to do their jobs.

We have physical, electronic, and procedural safeguards that comply with federal regulations to protect personal information about you.

To learn more about security, including the security steps we have taken and security steps you can take, please read Security at Yahoo!.

CHANGES TO THIS PRIVACY POLICY
Yahoo! may update this policy. We will notify you about significant changes in the way we treat personal information by sending a notice to the primary email address specified in your Yahoo! account or by placing a prominent notice on our site.

Return to top

 

QUESTIONS AND SUGGESTIONS
If you have questions, suggestions, or wish to make a complaint, please complete a feedback form or you can contact us at:

Yahoo! Inc.
Customer Care - Privacy Policy Issues
701 First Avenue
Sunnyvale, CA 94089
(408) 349-5070

If you feel that your inquiry has not been satisfactorily addressed, please click here for information on consumer agencies that may be able to provide you with additional assistance.

Effective Date: November 22, 2006

Privacy policy

The content of this page is an official policy approved by the Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees. This policy may not be circumvented, eroded, or ignored on local Wikimedia projects.

This version of the Privacy policy was approved in October 2008 by the Board of Trustees. Discussion and proposed changes are welcome on the talk page at Meta.
It is requested that this notice be translated and linked from the footer (MediaWiki:Copyright) of every page.

General Scope

This policy covers personally identifiable information collected or stored by the Foundation on its servers in relation to the Projects and their communities. Consistent with its Data Retention Policy, the Foundation collects and retains the least amount of personally identifiable information needed to fulfill the Projects' operational needs.
The public and collaborative nature of the projects

All Projects of the Wikimedia Foundation are collaboratively developed by its users using the MediaWiki software. Anyone with Internet access (and not otherwise restricted from doing so) may edit the publicly editable pages of these sites with or without logging in as a registered user. By doing this, editors create a published document, and a public record of every word added, subtracted, or changed. This is a public act, and editors are identified publicly as the author of such changes. All contributions made to a Project, and all publicly available information about those contributions, are irrevocably licensed and may be freely copied, quoted, reused and adapted by third parties with few restrictions.
Activities on Foundation projects

In general, this Policy only applies to private information stored or held by the Foundation which is not publicly available.
Interactions with the Projects not covered by this Policy include, but are not limited to, aspects of browsing and editing pages, use of the wiki "email user" function, subscribing and posting to Foundation hosted email lists, and corresponding with volunteers via the Foundation's ticketing system ("OTRS"). These interactions may reveal a contributor's IP address, and possibly other personal information, indiscriminately to the general public, or to specific groups of volunteers acting independently of the Foundation.
Users may also interact with one another outside of Foundation sites, via email, IRC or other chat, or independent websites, and should assess the risks involved, and their personal need for privacy, before using these methods of communication.
User accounts and authorship

The Foundation does not require editors to register with a project. Anyone can edit without logging in with a username, in which case they will be identified by network IP address. Users that do register are identified by their chosen username. Users select a password, which is confidential and used to verify the integrity of their account. Except insofar as it may be required by law, no person should disclose, or knowingly expose, either user passwords and/or cookies generated to identify a user. Once created, user accounts will not be removed. It may be possible for a username to be changed, depending on the policies of individual projects. The Foundation does not guarantee that a username will be changed on request.
Purpose of the collection of private information

The Foundation limits the collection of personally identifiable user data to purposes which serve the well-being of its projects, including but not limited to the following:
To enhance the public accountability of the projects. The Foundation recognizes that any system that is open enough to allow the greatest possible participation of the general public will also be vulnerable to certain kinds of abuse and counterproductive behavior. The Foundation and the project communities have established a number of mechanisms to prevent or remedy abusive activities. For example, when investigating abuse on a project, including the suspected use of malicious “sockpuppets” (duplicate accounts), vandalism, harassment of other users, or disruptive behavior, the IP addresses of users (derived either from those logs or from records in the database) may be used to identify the source(s) of the abusive behavior. This information may be shared by users with administrative authority who are charged by their communities with protecting the projects.
To provide site statistics. The Foundation statistically samples raw log data from users' visits. These logs are used to produce the site statistics pages; the raw log data is not made public.
To solve technical problems. Log data may be examined by developers in the course of solving technical problems and in tracking down badly-behaved web spiders that overwhelm the site.
Details of data retention

General expectations
IP and other technical information
When a visitor requests or reads a page, or sends email to a Wikimedia server, no more information is collected than is typically collected by web sites. The Wikimedia Foundation may keep raw logs of such transactions, but these will not be published or used to track legitimate users.
When a page is edited by a logged-in editor, the server confidentially stores related IP information for a limited period of time. This information is automatically deleted after a set period. For editors who do not log in, the IP address used is publicly and permanently credited as the author of the edit. It may be possible for a third party to identify the author from this IP address in conjunction with other information available. Logging in with a registered username allows for better preservation of privacy.
Cookies
The sites set a temporary session cookie on a visitor's computer whenever a Project page is visited. Readers who do not intend to log in or edit may deny this cookie; it will be deleted at the end of the browser's session. More cookies may be set when one logs in to maintain logged-in status. If one saves a user name or password in one's browser, that information will be saved for up to 30 days, and this information will be resent to the server on every visit to the same Project. Contributors using a public machine who do not wish to show their username to future users of the machine should clear these cookies after use.
Page history
Edits or other contributions to a Project on its articles, user pages and talk pages are generally retained forever. Removing text from a project does not permanently delete it. Normally, in projects, anyone can look at a previous version of an article and see what was there. Even if an article is "deleted", a user entrusted with higher level of access may still see what was removed from public view. Information can be permanently deleted by individuals with access to Wikimedia servers, but aside from the rare circumstance when the Foundation is required to delete editing-history material in response to a court order or equivalent legal process, there is no guarantee any permanent deletion will happen.
User contribution
User contributions are also aggregated and publicly available. User contributions are aggregated according to their registration and login status. Data on user contributions, such as the times at which users edited and the number of edits they have made, are publicly available via user contributions lists, and in aggregated forms published by other users.
Reading projects
No more information on users and other visitors reading pages is collected than is typically collected in server logs by web sites. Aside from the above raw log data collected for general purposes, page visits do not expose a visitor's identity publicly. Sampled raw log data may include the IP address of any user, but it is not reproduced publicly.
Editing projects
Edits to Project pages are identified with the username or network IP address of the editor, and editing history is aggregated by author in a contribution list. Such information will be available permanently on the projects.
Logged in registered users:
Logged in users do not expose their IP address to the public except in cases of abuse, including vandalism of a wiki page by the user or by another user with the same IP address. A user's IP address is stored on the wiki servers for a period of time, during which it can be seen by server administrators and by users who have been granted CheckUser access.
IP address information, and its connection to any usernames that share it, may be released under certain circumstances (see below).
Editors using a company mail server from home or telecommuting over a DSL or cable Internet connection, are likely to be easy to identify by their IP address; in which case it may be easy to cross-identify all contributions to various Projects made by that IP. Using a username is a better way of preserving privacy in this situation.
Unlogged-in registered users and unregistered users:
Editors who have not logged in may be identified by network IP address. Depending on one's connection, this IP address may be traceable to a large Internet service provider or more specifically to a school, place of business or home. It may be possible to use this information in combination with other information, including editing style and preferences, to identify an author completely.
Discussions
On wiki discussion pages:
Any editable page can theoretically be the location of a discussion. In general, discussions on Foundation projects occur on user talk pages (associated with particular users), on article talk pages (associated with particular articles) or in pages specially designated to function as forums (e.g., the Village Pump). Privacy expectations apply to discussion pages in the same way as they do elsewhere.
Via email:
Users are not required to list an email address when registering. Users who provide a valid email address can enable other logged-in users to send email to them through the wiki. When receiving an email from other users through this system, one's email address is not revealed to them. When choosing to send an email to other users, one's email is displayed as the sender.
The email address put into one's user preferences may be used by the Foundation for communication. Users whose accounts do not have a valid email address will not be able to reset their password if it is lost. In such a situation, however, users may be able to contact one of the Wikimedia server administrators to enter a new e-mail address. A user can remove the account's email address from his preferences at any time to prevent it from being used. Private correspondence between users may be saved at those users' discretion and is not subject to Wikimedia Foundation policy.
On mailing lists:
The email addresses used to subscribe and post to Project mailing lists are exposed to other subscribers. The list archives of most such mailing lists are public, and searches of public archives may be performed on the Web. Subscribers' addresses may also be quoted in other users' messages. These email addresses and any messages sent to a mailing list may be archived and may remain available to the public permanently.
Via OTRS:
Some e-mail addresses (such as info-en at wikimedia dot org) forward mail to a team of volunteers trusted by the Foundation to use a ticket system, such as OTRS, to respond. Mail sent to this system is not publicly visible, but volunteers selected by the Foundation will have access to it. The ticket system team may discuss the contents of received mail with other contributors in order to respond effectively. Mail to private addresses of members of Board of Trustees and to staff of the Foundation may also be forwarded to the OTRS team. These messages and e-mail addresses may be saved by members of the OTRS team and any email service they use, and may remain available to them.
On IRC:
IRC channels are not officially part of the Wikimedia Foundation and are not operated on Wikimedia controlled servers. The IP address of users who chat over such a service may be exposed to other participants. IRC users' privacy on each channel can only be protected according to the policies of the respective service and channel. Different channels have different policies on whether logs may be published.
Access to and release of personally identifiable information

Access:
Projects are primarily run by volunteer contributors. Some dedicated users are chosen by the community to be given privileged access. For example, for an English Wikipedia user, user access levels to Wikipedia are determined by the user's presence in various 'user groups'. User group rights and group members are reachable in every project from the Special:ListGroupRights page.
Other users who may have access to private identifiable information include, but are not limited to, users who have access to OTRS, or to the CheckUser and Oversight functions, users elected by project communities to serve as stewards or Arbitrators, Wikimedia Foundation employees, trustees, appointees, and contractors and agents employed by the Foundation, and developers and others with high levels of server access.
Access to and publication of this information is governed by the Access to nonpublic data policy, as well as specific policies covering some of the functions in question. Sharing information with other privileged users is not considered "distribution."
Release: Policy on Release of Data
It is the policy of Wikimedia that personally identifiable data collected in the server logs, or through records in the database via the CheckUser feature, or through other non-publicly-available methods, may be released by Wikimedia volunteers or staff, in any of the following situations:
In response to a valid subpoena or other compulsory request from law enforcement,
With permission of the affected user,
When necessary for investigation of abuse complaints,
Where the information pertains to page views generated by a spider or bot and its dissemination is necessary to illustrate or resolve technical issues,
Where the user has been vandalizing articles or persistently behaving in a disruptive way, data may be released to a service provider, carrier, or other third-party entity to assist in the targeting of IP blocks, or to assist in the formulation of a complaint to relevant Internet Service Providers,
Where it is reasonably necessary to protect the rights, property or safety of the Wikimedia Foundation, its users or the public.
Except as described above, Wikimedia policy does not permit distribution of personally identifiable information under any circumstances.
Third-party access and notifying registered users when receiving legal process:
As a general principle, the access to, and retention of, personally identifiable data in all projects should be minimal and should be used only internally to serve the well-being of the projects. Occasionally, however, the Foundation may receive a subpoena or other compulsory request from a law-enforcement agency or a court or equivalent government body that requests the disclosure of information about a registered user, and may be compelled by law to comply with the request. In the event of such a legally compulsory request, the Foundation will attempt to notify the affected user within three business days after the arrival of such subpoena by sending a notice by email to the email address (if any) that the affected user has listed in his or her user preferences.
The Foundation cannot advise a user receiving such a notification regarding the law or an appropriate response to a subpoena. The Foundation does note, however, that such users may have the legal right to resist or limit that information in court by filing a motion to quash the subpoena. Users who wish to oppose a subpoena or other compulsory request should seek legal advice concerning applicable rights and procedures that may be available.
If the Foundation receives a court-filed motion to quash or otherwise limit the subpoena as a result of action by a user or their lawyer, the Foundation will not disclose the requested information until Wikimedia receives an order from the court to do so.
Registered users are not required to provide an email address. However, when an affected registered user does not provide an email address, the Foundation will not be able to notify the affected user in private email messages when it receives requests from law enforcement to disclose personally identifiable information about the user.
Disclaimer

The Wikimedia Foundation believes that maintaining and preserving the privacy of user data is an important value. This Privacy Policy, together with other policies, resolutions, and actions by the Foundation, represents a committed effort to safeguard the security of the limited user information that is collected and retained on our servers. Nevertheless, the Foundation cannot guarantee that user information will remain private. We acknowledge that, in spite of our committed effort to protect private user information, determined individuals may still develop data-mining and other methods to uncover such information and disclose it. For this reason, the Foundation can make no guarantee against unauthorized access to information provided in the course of participating in Foundation Projects or related communities.

Microsoft Online Privacy Statement
This privacy statement applies to websites and services of Microsoft that collect data and display these terms, as well as its offline product support services. It does not apply to those Microsoft sites, services and products that do not display or link to this statement or that have their own privacy statements.
Please read the Microsoft Online Privacy Statement below and also any supplemental information listed to the right for further details about particular Microsoft sites and services you use. Some products, services or features mentioned in this statement may not be available in all markets at this time. Additional information on Microsoft’s commitment to protecting your privacy can be found at http://www.microsoft.com/privacy.
Collection of Your Personal Information
We collect information as part of operating our Websites and services.

At some Microsoft sites, we ask you to provide personal information, such as your e-mail address, name, home or work address, or telephone number. We may also collect demographic information, such as your ZIP code, age, gender, preferences, interests and favorites. If you choose to make a purchase or sign up for a paid subscription service, we will ask for additional information, such as your credit card number and billing address.

In order to access some Microsoft services, you will be asked to sign in with an e-mail address and password, which we refer to as your Windows Live ID. By signing in on one Microsoft site or service, you may be automatically signed into other Microsoft sites and services that use Windows Live ID. For more information, see the Windows Live ID privacy supplement.

We collect additional information about your interaction with Microsoft sites and services without identifying you as an individual. For example, we receive certain standard information that your browser sends to every website you visit, such as your IP address, browser type and language, access times and referring Web site addresses. We also use Web site analytics tools on our sites to retrieve information from your browser, including the site you came from, the search engine(s) and the keywords you used to find our site, the pages you view within our site, your browser add-ons, and your browser's width and height.

We use technologies, such as cookies and web beacons (described below), to collect information about the pages you view, the links you click and other actions you take on our sites and services.

We also deliver advertisements (see the Display of Advertising section below) and provide Web site analytics tools on non-Microsoft sites and services, and we collect information about page views on these third party sites as well.

When you receive newsletters or promotional e-mail from Microsoft, we may use web beacons (described below), customized links or similar technologies to determine whether the e-mail has been opened and which links you click in order to provide you more focused e-mail communications or other information.
In order to offer you a more consistent and personalized experience in your interactions with Microsoft, information collected through one Microsoft service may be combined with information obtained through other Microsoft services. We may also supplement the information we collect with information obtained from other companies. For example, we may use services from other companies that enable us to derive a general geographic area based on your IP address in order to customize certain services to your geographic area.

Use of Your Personal Information
Microsoft collects and uses your personal information to operate and improve its sites and services. These uses include providing you with more effective customer service; making the sites or services easier to use by eliminating the need for you to repeatedly enter the same information; performing research and analysis aimed at improving our products, services and technologies; and displaying content and advertising that are customized to your interests and preferences. For more information about the use of information for advertising, see the Display of Advertising section below.
We also use your personal information to communicate with you. We may send certain mandatory service communications such as welcome letters, billing reminders, information on technical service issues, and security announcements. Some Microsoft services, such as Windows Live Hotmail, may send periodic member letters that are considered part of the service. Additionally, with your permission, we may also occasionally send you product surveys or promotional mailings to inform you of other products or services available from Microsoft and its affiliates, and/or share your personal information with Microsoft partners so they may send you information about their products and services. You can opt-out from receiving newsletters or promotional e-mail anytime by using this web form or by following the steps as described in the respective newsletter or promotional e-mail.
Personal information collected on Microsoft sites and services may be stored and processed in the United States or any other country in which Microsoft or its affiliates, subsidiaries or service providers maintain facilities. Microsoft abides by the safe harbor framework as set forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce regarding the collection, use, and retention of data from the European Economic Area, and Switzerland.

Sharing of Your Personal Information
Except as described in this statement, we will not disclose your personal information outside of Microsoft and its controlled subsidiaries and affiliates without your consent. Some Microsoft sites allow you to choose to share your personal information with select Microsoft partners so that they can contact you about their products, services or offers. Other sites, such as MSN instead may give you a separate choice as to whether you wish to receive communications from Microsoft about a partner's particular offering (without transferring your personal information to the third party). See the Communication Preferences section below for more information.
Some Microsoft services are co-branded by Microsoft and another company (partner). If you register to or use such a service, both a Microsoft privacy statement and the partner’s privacy statement may be displayed. If so, both Microsoft and the partner will receive information you provide such as on registration forms.
Microsoft occasionally hires other companies (vendor) to provide limited services on our behalf, such as handling the processing and delivery of mailings, providing customer support, hosting websites, processing transactions, or performing statistical analysis of our services. Those service providers will be permitted to obtain only the personal information they need to deliver the service. They are required to maintain the confidentiality of the information and are prohibited from using it for any other purpose than for delivering the service to Microsoft in accordance with Microsoft’s instructions and policies. However, our vendors may use aggregate data for fraud detection to help improve their services. This helps them to more accurately detect fraudulent transactions. We may access or disclose information about you, including the content of your communications, in order to: (a) comply with the law or respond to lawful requests or legal process; (b) protect the rights or property of Microsoft or our customers, including the enforcement of our agreements or policies governing your use of the services; or (c) act on a good faith belief that such access or disclosure is necessary to protect the personal safety of Microsoft employees, customers or the public. We may also disclose personal information as part of a corporate transaction such as a merger or sale of assets.

Accessing Your Personal Information
Some Microsoft services give you the ability to view or edit your personal information online. To help prevent your personal information from being viewed by others, you first will be required to sign in. The method(s) for accessing your personal information will depend on which sites or services you have used.

Microsoft.com - You can access and update your profile on microsoft.com by visiting the Microsoft.com Profile Center.

Microsoft Billing and Account Services - If you have a Microsoft Billing account, you can add to or update your information at the Microsoft Billing Web site by clicking on the "Personal Information" or "Billing Information" links.

Microsoft Connect - If you are a registered user of Microsoft Connect, you can access and edit your personal information by clicking Manage Your Connect Profile at the Microsoft Connect Web site.

Windows Live - If you have used Windows Live services, you can update your profile information, change your password, view the unique ID associated with your credentials, or close certain accounts by visiting Windows Live Account Services.

Windows Live Public Profile - If you have created a public profile on Windows Live, you may also edit or delete information in your public profile by going to your Windows Live profile.

Search Advertising - If you buy search advertising through Microsoft Advertising, you can review and edit your personal information at the Microsoft adCenter Web site.

Microsoft Partner Programs - If you are registered with Microsoft Partner Programs, you can review and edit your profile by clicking Manage Your Account on the Partner Program Web site.

Xbox - If you are a Xbox LIVE or Xbox.com user, you can view or edit your personal information, including billing and account information, privacy settings, online safety and data sharing preferences by accessing My Xbox on the Xbox 360 console or on the Xbox.com website. For account information select My Xbox, Accounts. For other personal information settings, select My Xbox, Profile then Online Safety Settings.

Zune - If you have a Zune account or a Zune Pass subscription, you can view and edit your personal information at Zune.net (sign in, access your Zune tag then My Account or through the Zune software, (sign in, access your Zune tag, then select Zune.net profile.)"
In case you cannot access personal data collected by Microsoft sites or services via the links above, these sites and services may provide you with alternative means of access to your data. In any case, you can contact Microsoft by using the web form.

Communication Preferences
You can stop the delivery of future promotional e-mail from Microsoft sites and services by following the specific instructions in the e-mail you receive.
Depending on the respective service, you may also have the option of proactively making choices about the receipt of promotional e-mail, telephone calls, and postal mail from particular Microsoft sites or services by visiting and signing into the following pages:

The Microsoft.com Profile Center allows you to choose whether you wish to receive marketing communications from Microsoft.com, to select whether Microsoft.com may share your contact information with selected third parties, and to subscribe or unsubscribe to newsletters about our products and services.

The MSN & Windows Live Communications Preferences page allows you to choose whether you wish to receive marketing material from MSN or Windows Live. You may subscribe and unsubscribe to MSN Newsletters by going to the MSN Newsletters website.

If you have an Xbox.com or Xbox LIVE account, you can set your contact preferences and choose whether to share your contact information with Xbox partners by accessing My Xbox on the Xbox 360 console or on the Xbox.com website. To access these settings on the Xbox.com website, select My Xbox, Profile then Contact Preferences. On the Xbox 360 console, select My Xbox, Profile then Online Safety.

If you are registered with Microsoft Partner Programs, you can set your contact preferences or choose to share your contact information with other Microsoft partners by clicking Manage Your Account on the Partner Program Web site.

If you have a Zune account or a Zune Pass subscription, you can set your contact preferences and choose whether to share your contact information with Zune partners at Zune.net (sign in, access your Zune tag then My Account, Newsletter options or through the Zune software (sign in, access your Zune tag, then select Zune.net profile.)
In any case, you can inform Microsoft by using this web form about your wish to stop the delivery of future promotional e-mail. These choices do not apply to the display of online advertising: please refer to the section “Display of Advertising (Opt-out)” for information on this matter. Nor do they apply to the receipt of mandatory service communications that are considered part of certain Microsoft services, which you may receive periodically unless you cancel the service.

Display of Advertising (Opt-Out)
Many of our Web sites and online services are supported by advertising.
Most of the online advertisements on Microsoft sites are displayed by Microsoft Advertising. When we display online advertisements to you, we will place one or more persistent cookies on your computer in order to recognize your computer each time we display an ad to you. Because we serve advertisements on our own websites as well as those of our advertising and publisher partners, we are able to compile information over time about the types of pages, content and ads you, or others who are using your computer, visited or viewed. This information is used for many purposes, for example, it helps us try to ensure that you do not see the same advertisements over and over again. We also use this information to help select and display targeted advertisements that we believe may be of interest to you.
You may opt-out of receiving targeted ads from Microsoft Advertising by visiting our opt-out page. For more information about how Microsoft Advertising collects and uses information, please see the Microsoft Advertising Privacy Supplement.
We also allow third-party ad companies, including other ad networks, to display advertisements on our sites. In some cases, these third parties may also place cookies on your computer. These companies currently include, but are not limited to: 24/7 Real Media, aCerno,Inc, AdBlade, AdConion, AdFusion, Advertising.com, AppNexus, Bane Media, Brand.net, CasaleMedia, Collective Media, Fox Interactive, Interclick, Millennial, PrecisionClick, ROI Media, Social Media, SpecificMedia, TrafficMarketplace, Tribal Fusion, ValueClick, Yahoo!, YuMe, and Zumobi. These companies may offer you a way to opt-out of ad targeting based on their cookies. You may find more information by clicking on the company names above and following the links to the Web sites of each company. Many of them are also members of the Network Advertising Initiative or the Digital Advertising Alliance, which each provide a simple way to opt-out of ad targeting from participating companies.

Security of Your Personal Information
Microsoft is committed to protecting the security of your personal information. We use a variety of security technologies and procedures to help protect your personal information from unauthorized access, use, or disclosure. For example, we store the personal information we collect on computer systems with limited access, which are located in controlled facilities. When we transmit highly confidential information (such as a credit card number or password) over the Internet, we protect it through the use of encryption, such as the Secure Socket Layer (SSL) protocol.
If a password is used to help protect your accounts and personal information, it is your responsibility to keep your password confidential. Do not share this information with anyone. If you are sharing a computer with anyone you should always log out before leaving a site or service to protect access to your information from subsequent users.

Collection and Use of Children's Personal Information
Many Microsoft sites and services are intended for general audiences and do not knowingly collect any personal information from children. When a Microsoft site does collect age information, and users identify themselves as under 13, the site will either block such users from providing personal information, or will seek to obtain consent from parents for the collection, use and sharing of their children's personal information. We will not knowingly ask children under the age of 13 to provide more information than is reasonably necessary to provide our services.
Please note that if you grant consent for your child to use Microsoft services, this will include such general audience communication services as e-mail, instant messaging, and online groups, and your child will be able to communicate with, and disclose personal information to, other users of all ages. Parents can change or revoke the consent choices previously made, and review, edit or request the deletion of their children's personal information. For example, on MSN and Windows Live, parents can visit Account Services, and click on “Permission for kids.” If we change this privacy statement in a way that expands the collection, use or disclosure of children's personal information to which a parent has previously consented, the parent will be notified and we will be required to obtain the parent's additional consent.
If you have an MSN Premium, MSN Plus, or MSN 9 Dial-Up account, and use MSN Client software version 9.5 or below, you can choose to set up MSN Parental Controls for the other users of that account. Please read the supplemental privacy information for MSN for further information.
We encourage you to talk with your children about communicating with strangers and disclosing personal information online. You and your child can visit our online safety resources for additional information about using the Internet safely.

Use of Cookies
Most Microsoft Web sites use "cookies," which are small text files placed on your hard disk by a Web server. Cookies contain information that can later be read by a Web server in the domain that issued the cookie to you.
One of the primary purposes of cookies is to store your preferences and other information on your computer in order to save you time by eliminating the need to repeatedly enter the same information and to display your personalized content and targeted advertising on your later visits to these sites. Microsoft Web sites also use cookies as described in the Display of Advertising sections of this privacy statement.
When you sign in to a site using your Windows Live ID, we store your unique ID number, and the time you signed in, in an encrypted cookie on your hard disk. This cookie allows you to move from page to page at the site without having to sign in again on each page. When you sign out, these cookies are deleted from your computer. We also use cookies to improve the sign in experience. For example, your e-mail address may be stored in a cookie that will remain on your computer after you sign out. This cookie allows your e-mail address to be pre-populated, so that you will only need to type your password the next time you sign in. If you are using a public computer or do not otherwise want this information to be stored, you can select the appropriate radio button on the sign-in page, and this cookie will not be used.
You have the ability to accept or decline cookies. Most Web browsers automatically accept cookies, but you can usually modify your browser setting to decline cookies if you prefer. If you choose to decline cookies, you may not be able to sign in or use other interactive features of Microsoft sites and services that depend on cookies, and some advertising preferences that are dependent on cookies may not be able to be respected.
If you choose to accept cookies, you also have the ability to later delete cookies that you have accepted. For example, in Internet Explorer 8, you can delete cookies by selecting “Tools”, “Delete browsing history”. Then select the control box “Cookies" and click the “Delete” button. If you choose to delete cookies, any settings and preferences controlled by those cookies, including advertising preferences, will be deleted and may need to be recreated.

Use of Web Beacons
Microsoft Web pages may contain electronic images known as Web beacons - sometimes called single-pixel gifs - that may be used to assist in delivering cookies on our sites and allow us to count users who have visited those pages and to deliver co-branded services. We may include Web beacons in promotional e-mail messages or our newsletters in order to determine whether messages have been opened and acted upon.
Microsoft may also employ Web beacons from third parties in order to help us compile aggregated statistics regarding the effectiveness of our promotional campaigns or other operations of our sites. We prohibit Web beacons on our sites from being used by third parties to collect or access your personal information.
Finally, we may work with other companies that advertise on Microsoft sites to place Web beacons on their sites in order to allow us to develop statistics on how often clicking on an advertisement on a Microsoft site results in a purchase or other action on the advertiser's site.

Controlling Unsolicited E-mail ("Spam")
Microsoft is concerned about controlling unsolicited commercial e-mail, or "spam." Microsoft has a strict Anti-Spam Policy prohibiting the use of a Windows Live Hotmail or other Microsoft-provided e-mail account to send spam. Microsoft will not sell, lease or rent its e-mail subscriber lists to third parties. . While Microsoft continues to actively review and implement new technology, such as expanded filtering features, there is no technology that will totally prevent the sending and receiving of unsolicited e-mail. Using junk e-mail tools and being cautious about the sharing of your e-mail address while online will help reduce the amount of unsolicited e-mail you receive.

TRUSTe Certification
Microsoft has been awarded TRUSTe's Privacy Seal signifying that this privacy statement and our practices have been reviewed by TRUSTe for compliance with TRUSTe's program requirements including transparency, accountability and choice regarding the collection and use of your personal information. The TRUSTe program does not cover information that may be collected through downloadable software. TRUSTe's mission, as an independent third party, is to accelerate online trust among consumers and organizations globally through its leading privacy trustmark and innovative trust solutions.

Enforcement of This Privacy Statement
If you have questions regarding this statement, you should first contact us by using our Web form. If you do not receive acknowledgement of your inquiry or your inquiry has not been satisfactorily addressed, you should then contact TRUSTe at http://www.truste.org/consumers/watchdog_complaint.php. TRUSTe will serve as a liaison with Microsoft to resolve your concerns.

Changes to This Privacy Statement
We will occasionally update this privacy statement to reflect changes in our services and customer feedback. When we post changes to this Statement, we will revise the "last updated" date at the top of this statement. If there are material changes to this statement or in how Microsoft will use your personal information, we will notify you either by prominently posting a notice of such changes prior to implementing the change or by directly sending you a notification. We encourage you to periodically review this statement to be informed of how Microsoft is protecting your information.

How to Contact Us
For more information about our privacy practices, go to the full Microsoft Online Privacy Statement.

If you have a technical or general support question, please visit http://support.microsoft.com/ to learn more about Microsoft Support offerings.

If you suspect your Hotmail/Live account has been hacked or taken over, please visit Live Help.

If you have a Hotmail/Live password question, please visit Live Help.

For general Microsoft Privacy issues, please contact us by using our Web form.
Microsoft Privacy, Microsoft Corporation, One Microsoft Way, Redmond, Washington 98052 USA 425-882-8080
To find the Microsoft subsidiary in your country or region, see http://www.microsoft.com/worldwide/.

Amazon.com Privacy Notice
Last updated: October 1, 2008. To see what has changed, click here.

Amazon.com knows that you care how information about you is used and shared, and we appreciate your trust that we will do so carefully and sensibly. This notice describes our privacy policy. By visiting Amazon.com, you are accepting the practices described in this Privacy Notice.

What Personal Information About Customers Does Amazon.com Gather?
What About Cookies?
Does Amazon.com Share the Information It Receives?
How Secure Is Information About Me?
What About Third-Party Advertisers and Links to Other Websites?
Which Information Can I Access?
What Choices Do I Have?
Are Children Allowed to Use Amazon.com?
Does Amazon.com Participate in the Safe Harbor Program?
Conditions of Use, Notices, and Revisions
Examples of Information Collected
What Personal Information About Customers Does Amazon.com Gather?
The information we learn from customers helps us personalize and continually improve your shopping experience at Amazon.com. Here are the types of information we gather.

Information You Give Us: We receive and store any information you enter on our Web site or give us in any other way. Click here to see examples of what we collect. You can choose not to provide certain information, but then you might not be able to take advantage of many of our features. We use the information that you provide for such purposes as responding to your requests, customizing future shopping for you, improving our stores, and communicating with you.
Automatic Information: We receive and store certain types of information whenever you interact with us. For example, like many Web sites, we use "cookies," and we obtain certain types of information when your Web browser accesses Amazon.com or advertisements and other content served by or on behalf of Amazon.com on other Web sites. Click here to see examples of the information we receive.
E-mail Communications: To help us make e-mails more useful and interesting, we often receive a confirmation when you open e-mail from Amazon.com if your computer supports such capabilities. We also compare our customer list to lists received from other companies, in an effort to avoid sending unnecessary messages to our customers. If you do not want to receive e-mail or other mail from us, please adjust your Customer Communication Preferences.
Information from Other Sources: We might receive information about you from other sources and add it to our account information. Click here to see examples of the information we receive.
What About Cookies?
Cookies are alphanumeric identifiers that we transfer to your computer's hard drive through your Web browser to enable our systems to recognize your browser and to provide features such as 1-Click purchasing, Recommended for You, personalized advertisements on other Web sites (e.g., Amazon Associates with content served by Amazon.com and Web sites using Checkout by Amazon payment service), and storage of items in your Shopping Cart between visits.
The Help portion of the toolbar on most browsers will tell you how to prevent your browser from accepting new cookies, how to have the browser notify you when you receive a new cookie, or how to disable cookies altogether. Additionally, you can disable or delete similar data used by browser add-ons, such as Flash cookies, by changing the add-on's settings or visiting the Web site of its manufacturer. However, because cookies allow you to take advantage of some of Amazon.com's essential features, we recommend that you leave them turned on. For instance, if you block or otherwise reject our cookies, you will not be able to add items to your Shopping Cart, proceed to Checkout, or use any Amazon.com products and services that require you to Sign in.
Does Amazon.com Share the Information It Receives?
Information about our customers is an important part of our business, and we are not in the business of selling it to others. We share customer information only as described below and with subsidiaries Amazon.com, Inc. controls that either are subject to this Privacy Notice or follow practices at least as protective as those described in this Privacy Notice.
Affiliated Businesses We Do Not Control: We work closely with affiliated businesses. In some cases, such as Marketplace sellers, these businesses operate stores at Amazon.com or sell offerings to you at Amazon.com. In other cases, we operate stores, provide services, or sell product lines jointly with these businesses. Click here for some examples of co-branded and joint offerings. You can tell when a third party is involved in your transactions, and we share customer information related to those transactions with that third party.
Third-Party Service Providers: We employ other companies and individuals to perform functions on our behalf. Examples include fulfilling orders, delivering packages, sending postal mail and e-mail, removing repetitive information from customer lists, analyzing data, providing marketing assistance, providing search results and links (including paid listings and links), processing credit card payments, and providing customer service. They have access to personal information needed to perform their functions, but may not use it for other purposes.
Promotional Offers: Sometimes we send offers to selected groups of Amazon.com customers on behalf of other businesses. When we do this, we do not give that business your name and address. If you do not want to receive such offers, please adjust your Customer Communication Preferences.
Business Transfers: As we continue to develop our business, we might sell or buy stores, subsidiaries, or business units. In such transactions, customer information generally is one of the transferred business assets but remains subject to the promises made in any pre-existing Privacy Notice (unless, of course, the customer consents otherwise). Also, in the unlikely event that Amazon.com, Inc., or substantially all of its assets are acquired, customer information will of course be one of the transferred assets.
Protection of Amazon.com and Others: We release account and other personal information when we believe release is appropriate to comply with the law; enforce or apply our Conditions of Use and other agreements; or protect the rights, property, or safety of Amazon.com, our users, or others. This includes exchanging information with other companies and organizations for fraud protection and credit risk reduction. Obviously, however, this does not include selling, renting, sharing, or otherwise disclosing personally identifiable information from customers for commercial purposes in violation of the commitments set forth in this Privacy Notice.
With Your Consent: Other than as set out above, you will receive notice when information about you might go to third parties, and you will have an opportunity to choose not to share the information.
How Secure Is Information About Me?
We work to protect the security of your information during transmission by using Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) software, which encrypts information you input.
We reveal only the last four digits of your credit card numbers when confirming an order. Of course, we transmit the entire credit card number to the appropriate credit card company during order processing.
It is important for you to protect against unauthorized access to your password and to your computer. Be sure to sign off when finished using a shared computer. Click here for more information on how to sign off.
What About Third-Party Advertisers and Links to Other Websites?
Our site includes third-party advertising and links to other Web sites. We do not provide any personally identifiable customer information to these advertisers or third-party Web sites. Click here for more information about our Advertising Policies and Specifications. 

These third-party Web sites and advertisers, or Internet advertising companies working on their behalf, sometimes use technology to send (or "serve") the advertisements that appear on our Web site directly to your browser. They automatically receive your IP address when this happens. They may also use cookies, JavaScript, web beacons (also known as action tags or single-pixel gifs), and other technologies to measure the effectiveness of their ads and to personalize advertising content. We do not have access to or control over cookies or other features that they may use, and the information practices of these advertisers and third-party Web sites are not covered by this Privacy Notice. Please contact them directly for more information about their privacy practices. In addition, the Network Advertising Initiative offers useful information about Internet advertising companies (also called "ad networks" or "network advertisers"), including information about how to opt-out of their information collection. 

Amazon.com also displays personalized third-party advertising based on personal information about customers, such as purchases on Amazon.com, visits to Amazon Associate Web sites, or use of payment services like Checkout by Amazon on other Web sites. Click here for more information about the personal information that we gather. Although Amazon.com does not provide any personal information to advertisers, advertisers (including ad-serving companies) may assume that users who interact with or click on a personalized advertisement meet their criteria to personalize the ad (for example, users in the northwestern United States who bought or browsed for classical music). If you do not want us to use personal information that we gather to allow third parties to personalize advertisements we display to you, please adjust your Advertising Preferences.
Which Information Can I Access?
Amazon.com gives you access to a broad range of information about your account and your interactions with Amazon.com for the limited purpose of viewing and, in certain cases, updating that information. Click here to see some examples, the list of which will change as our Web site evolves.
What Choices Do I Have?
As discussed above, you can always choose not to provide information, even though it might be needed to make a purchase or to take advantage of such Amazon.com features as Your Profile, Wish Lists, Customer Reviews, and Amazon Prime.
You can add or update certain information on pages such as those referenced in the "Which Information Can I Access?" section. When you update information, we usually keep a copy of the prior version for our records.
If you do not want to receive e-mail or other mail from us, please adjust your Customer Communication Preferences. (If you do not want to receive Conditions of Use and other legal notices from us, such as this Privacy Notice, those notices will still govern your use of Amazon.com, and it is your responsibility to review them for changes.)
If you do not want us to use personal information that we gather to allow third parties to personalize advertisements we display to you, please adjust your Advertising Preferences.
The Help portion of the toolbar on most browsers will tell you how to prevent your browser from accepting new cookies, how to have the browser notify you when you receive a new cookie, or how to disable cookies altogether. Additionally, you can disable or delete similar data used by browser add-ons, such as Flash cookies, by changing the add-on's settings or visiting the Web site of its manufacturer. However, because cookies allow you to take advantage of some of Amazon.com's essential features, we recommend that you leave them turned on. For instance, if you block or otherwise reject our cookies, you will not be able to add items to your Shopping Cart, proceed to Checkout, or use any Amazon.com products and services that require you to Sign in.
Are Children Allowed to Use Amazon.com?
Amazon.com does not sell products for purchase by children. We sell children's products for purchase by adults. If you are under 18, you may use Amazon.com only with the involvement of a parent or guardian. 

Does Amazon.com Participate in the Safe Harbor Program?
Amazon.com is a participant in the Safe Harbor program developed by the U.S. Department of Commerce and the European Union. We have certified that we adhere to the Safe Harbor Privacy Principles agreed upon by the U.S. and the E.U. For more information about the Safe Harbor and to view our certification, visit the U.S. Department of Commerce's Safe Harbor Web site. If you would like to contact Amazon.com directly about the Safe Harbor program, please send an e-mail to safeharbor@amazon.com. 

Conditions of Use, Notices, and Revisions
If you choose to visit Amazon.com, your visit and any dispute over privacy is subject to this Notice and our Conditions of Use, including limitations on damages, resolution of disputes, and application of the law of the state of Washington. If you have any concern about privacy at Amazon.com, please contact us with a thorough description, and we will try to resolve it. Our business changes constantly, and our Privacy Notice and the Conditions of Use will change also. We may e-mail periodic reminders of our notices and conditions, unless you have instructed us not to, but you should check our Web site frequently to see recent changes. Unless stated otherwise, our current Privacy Notice applies to all information that we have about you and your account. We stand behind the promises we make, however, and will never materially change our policies and practices to make them less protective of customer information collected in the past without the consent of affected customers. 

Related Practices and Information
Conditions of Use
Discussion Boards
Community Rules
Help department
Most Recent Purchases
Your Profile and Community Guidelines
Examples of Information Collected
Information You Give Us

You provide most such information when you search, buy, bid, post, participate in a contest or questionnaire, or communicate with customer service. For example, you provide information when you search for a product; place an order through Amazon.com or one of our third-party sellers; provide information in Your Account (and you might have more than one if you have used more than one e-mail address when shopping with us) or Your Profile; communicate with us by phone, e-mail, or otherwise; complete a questionnaire or a contest entry form; compile Wish Lists or other gift registries; provide employer information when opening a corporate account; participate in Discussion Boards or other community features; provide and rate Reviews; specify a Special Occasion Reminder; share information with Amazon Friends; and employ other Personal Notification Services, such as Available to Order Notifications. As a result of those actions, you might supply us with such information as your name, address, and phone numbers; credit card information; people to whom purchases have been shipped, including addresses and phone number; people (with addresses and phone numbers) listed in 1-Click settings; e-mail addresses of Amazon Friends and other people; content of reviews and e-mails to us; personal description and photograph in Your Profile; and financial information, including Social Security and driver's license numbers.
Automatic Information

Examples of the information we collect and analyze include the Internet protocol (IP) address used to connect your computer to the Internet; login; e-mail address; password; computer and connection information such as browser type, version, and time zone setting, browser plug-in types and versions, operating system, and platform; purchase history, which we sometimes aggregate with similar information from other customers to create features such as Purchase Circles and Top Sellers; the full Uniform Resource Locator (URL) clickstream to, through, and from our Web site, including date and time; cookie number; products you viewed or searched for; and the phone number you used to call our 800 number. We may also use browser data such as cookies, Flash cookies (also known as Flash Local Shared Objects), or similar data on certain parts of our Web site for fraud prevention and other purposes. During some visits we may use software tools such as JavaScript to measure and collect session information, including page response times, download errors, length of visits to certain pages, page interaction information (such as scrolling, clicks, and mouse-overs), and methods used to browse away from the page.
Information from Other Sources

Examples of information we receive from other sources include updated delivery and address information from our carriers or other third parties, which we use to correct our records and deliver your next purchase or communication more easily; account information, purchase or redemption information, and page-view information from some merchants with which we operate co-branded businesses or for which we provide technical, fulfillment, advertising, or other services (such as Target.com); search term and search result information from some searches conducted through the Web search features offered by our subsidiaries, Alexa Internet and A9.com; search results and links, including paid listings (such as Sponsored Links); and credit history information from credit bureaus, which we use to help prevent and detect fraud and to offer certain credit or financial services to some customers.
Co-branded and Joint Offerings

Examples of businesses with which we offer joint or co-branded products and other offerings include Target, CD Now, Verizon Wireless, Sprint, T-Mobile, AT&T, Shutterfly, J&R, Godiva, Avon, Macy's, PacSun, Eddie Bauer and Northern Tool + Equipment.
Information You Can Access

Examples of information you can access easily at Amazon.com include up-to-date information regarding recent orders; personally identifiable information (including name, e-mail, password, communications and personalized advertising preferences, address book, and 1-Click settings); payment settings (including credit card information and gift certificate, gift card, and check balances); e-mail notification settings (including Alerts, Available to Order notifications, Delivers, Recommended for You, Special Occasion Reminders, Weekly Movie Showtimes, and newsletters); recommendations (including recent product view history, prior order history, and Favorites); shopping lists and gift registries (including Wish Lists and Baby and Wedding Registries); Marketplace seller accounts; and Your Profile (including your product Reviews, Requests, and Recommendations, Listmania lists, "So You'd Like to..." guides, personal profile, people you tagged as interesting, and Amazon Friends).

Twitter Privacy Policy
This Privacy Policy describes Twitter's policies and procedures on the collection, use and disclosure of your information. Twitter receives your information through our various web sites, SMS, APIs, applications, services and third-parties ("Services"). For example, you send us information when you use Twitter from our web site, post or receive Tweets via SMS, add a Twitter widget to your website, or access Twitter from an application such as Twitter for Mac, Twitter for Android or TweetDeck. When using any of our Services you consent to the collection, transfer, manipulation, storage, disclosure and other uses of your information as described in this Privacy Policy. Irrespective of which country that you reside in or create information from, your information may be used by Twitter in the United States or any other country where Twitter operates.

If you have any questions or comments about this Privacy Policy, please contact us at privacy@twitter.com.

Information Collection and Use
Tip We collect and use your information to provide and measure use of our Services and improve them over time.

Information Collected Upon Registration: When you create or reconfigure a Twitter account, you provide some personal information, such as your name, username, password, and email address. Some of this information, for example, your name and username, is listed publicly on our Services, including on your profile page and in search results. Some Services, such as search, public user profiles and viewing lists, do not require registration.

Additional Information: You may provide us with additional information to make public, such as a short biography, your location, or a picture. You may customize your account with information such as a cell phone number for the delivery of SMS messages or your address book so that we can help you find Twitter users you know. We may use your contact information to send you information about our Services or to market to you. You may unsubscribe from these messages by following the instructions contained within the messages or the instructions on our web site. If you email us, we may keep your message, email address and contact information to respond to your request. Providing the additional information described in this section is entirely optional.

Tweets, Following, Lists and other Public Information: Our Services are primarily designed to help you share information with the world. Most of the information you provide to us is information you are asking us to make public. This includes not only the messages you Tweet and the metadata provided with Tweets, such as when you Tweeted, but also the lists you create, the people you follow, the Tweets you mark as favorites or Retweet and many other bits of information. Our default is almost always to make the information you provide public but we generally give you settings (http://twitter.com/account/settings) to make the information more private if you want. Your public information is broadly and instantly disseminated. For example, your public Tweets are searchable by many search engines and are immediately delivered via SMS and our APIs (http://dev.twitter.com/pages/api_faq) to a wide range of users and services. You should be careful about all information that will be made public by Twitter, not just your Tweets.

Tip What you say on Twitter may be viewed all around the world instantly.

Location Information: You may choose to note your location in your Tweets and in your Twitter profile. If you turn on Tweeting with your location, we may also save exact coordinates to help improve our service. You can control your location information settings in your account settings (http://twitter.com/account/settings).

Log Data: Our servers automatically record information ("Log Data") created by your use of the Services. Log Data may include information such as your IP address, browser type, the referring domain, pages visited, your mobile carrier, device and application IDs, and search terms. Other actions, such as interactions with our website, applications and advertisements, may also be included in Log Data. If we haven’t already deleted the Log Data earlier, we will either delete it or remove any common account identifiers, such as your username, full IP address, or email address, after 18 months.

Links: Twitter may keep track of how you interact with links in Tweets across our Services including third party services and clients by redirecting clicks or through other means. We do this to help improve our Services, including advertising, and to be able to share aggregate click statistics such as how many times a particular link was clicked on.

Cookies: Like many websites, we use "cookie" technology to collect additional website usage data and to improve our Services, but we do not require cookies for many parts of our Services such as searching and looking at public user profiles or lists. A cookie is a small data file that is transferred to your computer's hard disk. Twitter may use both session cookies and persistent cookies to better understand how you interact with our Services, to monitor aggregate usage by our users and web traffic routing on our Services, and to improve our Services. Most Internet browsers automatically accept cookies. You can instruct your browser, by editing its options, to stop accepting cookies or to prompt you before accepting a cookie from the websites you visit.

Third Party Services: Twitter uses a variety of services hosted by third parties to help provide our Services, such as hosting our various blogs and wikis, and to help us understand the use of our Services, such as Google Analytics. These services may collect information sent by your browser as part of a web page request, such as cookies or your IP request.

Information Sharing and Disclosure
Tip We do not disclose your private information except in the limited circumstances described here.

Your Consent: We may share or disclose your information with your consent, such as when you use a third party web client or application to access your Twitter account.

Service Providers: We engage certain trusted third parties to perform functions and provide services to us. We may share your personal information with these third parties, but only to the extent necessary to perform these functions and provide such services, and only pursuant to obligations mirroring the protections of this privacy policy.

Law and Harm: We may preserve or disclose your information if we believe that it is reasonably necessary to comply with a law, regulation or legal request; to protect the safety of any person; to address fraud, security or technical issues; or to protect Twitter's rights or property.

Business Transfers: In the event that Twitter is involved in a bankruptcy, merger, acquisition, reorganization or sale of assets, your information may be sold or transferred as part of that transaction. The promises in this privacy policy will apply to your information as transferred to the new entity.

Non-Private or Non-Personal Information: We may share or disclose your non-private, aggregated or otherwise non-personal information, such as your public Tweets or the number of users who clicked on a particular link (even if only one did).

Modifying Your Personal Information
If you are a registered user of our Services, we provide you with tools to access or modify the personal information you provided to us and associated with your account.

You can also permanently delete your Twitter account. If you follow the instructions here (https://support.twitter.com/articles/15358-how-to-deactivate-your-account), your account will be deactivated and then deleted. When your account is deactivated, it is not viewable on Twitter.com. For up to 30 days it is still possible to restore your account if it was accidentally or wrongfully deactivated. After 30 days, we begin the process of deleting your account from our systems, which can take up to a week.

Our Policy Towards Children
Our Services are not directed to people under 13. If you become aware that your child has provided us with personal information without your consent, please contact us at privacy@twitter.com. We do not knowingly collect personal information from children under 13. If we become aware that a child under 13 has provided us with personal information, we take steps to remove such information and terminate the child's account.

Changes to this Policy
We may revise this Privacy Policy from time to time. The most current version of the policy will govern our use of your information and will always be at http://twitter.com/privacy. If we make a change to this policy that, in our sole discretion, is material, we will notify you via an @Twitter update or e-mail to the email associated with your account. By continuing to access or use the Services after those changes become effective, you agree to be bound by the revised Privacy Policy.

Effective: June 23, 2011

Privacy Policy
Last revised on June 16, 2011

LinkedIn Privacy Policy Highlights

  
 
This page summarizes the key highlights from our Privacy Policy. For more information, read our full Privacy Policy.

Please note that our Privacy Policy has been updated. Please click here for a summary of the changes.

Personal information collected

We collect information:

When you register an account to become a LinkedIn user (“User”), such as your name, e-mail, employer, country, and a password.
When you view and interact with LinkedIn pages, features, and functionality, including LinkedIn mobile applications, software (like adding to your profile, participating in Groups, uploading contacts, etc.), and platform technology (like “Share on LinkedIn” buttons or third party applications). We also collect your IP address, browser type, operating system, mobile carrier, and your ISP, and receive the URLs of sites from which you arrive or leave the LinkedIn website, or sites that have embedded LinkedIn platform technology.
Through cookies and other technologies that allow us to recognize you, customize your experience, and serve advertisements both on and off LinkedIn. Learn more about cookies, beacons in Sections 1G and 1H, below. You can opt-out of advertising off LinkedIn here.
When you interact with third party services available through LinkedIn like surveys, polls or other third party research undertaken with your consent.
Uses of personal information

We use the information you provide to:

Enable you to share your information and communicate with other Users, or provide your personal details to third parties offering combined services with LinkedIn;
Administer your account with us and customize the service we provide to you and other Users; and to
Send you service or promotional communications through email and notices on the LinkedIn website. You can control your messaging preferences here.
Connect you to opportunities by enabling other professionals to find you on LinkedIn.
Create and distribute advertising relevant to your or your network’s LinkedIn experience. If you share your interactions on LinkedIn, for example, when you recommend a product, follow a company, establish or update your profile, join a Group, etc., LinkedIn may use these actions to create social ads for your network on LinkedIn using your profile photo and name. You can control whether LinkedIn uses your name and picture in social ads here.
We do not sell, rent, or otherwise provide personally identifiable information to third parties without your consent except where it is necessary to carry out your instructions (to process your payment information, for example) or as described in Section 2 of this Privacy Policy. Also, we may share information with affiliates (like LinkedIn Ireland, Limited) to provide the Services. We also provide you with the means to control whether or not your contact information is viewable to other Users through your profile.

Please note that in order to fulfill your requests for paid services (e.g., LinkedIn Premium Services), we share your payment information with our payment processor.

Your Information Choices

You can:

Review, enhance or edit your personal information through your personal profile page;
Control what information you make available to search engines through your public profile;
Choose whether you install or remove any third party applications;
Control whether your profile information is shared with third parties through Developer Applications installed by your connections by clicking here;
Control the messages you receive from LinkedIn and other Users;
Change your settings to control visibility and accessibility through our website;
Control whether LinkedIn personalizes its professional plugins across the web using your LinkedIn account here.
Control whether LinkedIn uses your name and profile photo in social ads; and
Tell us to close your LinkedIn account.
Your obligations to other Users.

Do not abuse the LinkedIn service by using it to spam, abuse, harass, or otherwise violate the User Agreement or Privacy Policy.
Important information

LinkedIn has been awarded TRUSTe's Privacy Seal signifying that this privacy policy and its practices have been reviewed by TRUSTe for compliance with TRUSTe's program requirements including transparency, accountability and choice regarding the collection and use of your personal information.
LinkedIn Corp participates in the EU Safe Harbor Privacy Framework as administered by the United States Department of Commerce as a data controller, and has self-certified our privacy practices as consistent with U.S.-E.U. Safe Harbor principles: Notice, Choice, Onward Transfer, Access and Accuracy, Security, Data Integrity and Enforcement. As part of our participation in the Safe Harbor Privacy Framework, LinkedIn has agreed to TRUSTe dispute resolution for disputes relating to our compliance with it. Please note that by becoming a User, you have given us your express and informed consent to transfer the data that you provide to us to the United States and to process it in the United States.
If Users have questions or concerns regarding this Privacy Policy, including the Safe Harbor Privacy Framework, you should first contact LinkedIn here. If you do not receive acknowledgment of your inquiry or it is not satisfactorily addressed, you may raise your complaint with TRUSTe on their website accessible here, by fax at +1-415-520-3420, or mail at WatchDog Complaints, TRUSTe, 55 2nd Street, 2nd FloorSan Francisco, CA, USA 94105. TRUSTe will serve as a liaison with LinkedIn to resolve Users' concerns.
Notice of all changes that materially affect ways in which your personal information may be used or shared will be posted in updates to our Privacy Policy.
Security

Personal information you provide will be secured in accordance with industry standards and technology. Since the internet is not a 100% secure environment, we cannot ensure or warrant the security of any information you transmit to LinkedIn. There is no guarantee that information may not be accessed, copied, disclosed, altered, or destroyed by breach of any of our physical, technical, or managerial safeguards.
You are responsible for maintaining the secrecy of your unique password and account information, and for controlling access to your email communications at all times.
How to contact us

If you have questions or comments please send them to us here or contact us at:

LinkedIn Corporation
Attn: Privacy Policy Issues
2029 Stierlin Court
Mountain View,CA 94043
USA
LinkedIn Privacy Policy

Introduction:

The mission of LinkedIn is to connect the world’s professionals to enable them to be more productive and successful. We work to fulfill this mission by helping you, your connections, and millions of other professionals meet, exchange ideas, learn, make deals, find opportunities or employees, work, and make decisions in a network of trusted relationships and groups.

Being part of LinkedIn means sharing information about yourself with other professionals, communicating with them, as well as working privately on your own. By default, your account is set up to share the information that we have found the vast majority of our Users are interested in sharing. But the amount and type of information you decide to share, and with whom you share it, is up to you.

Here are the three main types of information on LinkedIn:

Information about yourself that you share. This is the information that your connections, other professionals, and companies see about you. This includes your profile and your contributions to discussions on LinkedIn Groups, Answers, or other community features LinkedIn may offer such as “Profile Stats” which, if you choose to opt-in, can show you who viewed your profile (and will show others when you visited their profiles). You have control over what you share, and you can update information at any time.

Communication. We help you communicate with connections and other professionals. Some of this is one-to-one, some of it is in groups, and some of it is public discussion. You decide how much or how little you wish to communicate to individuals or groups.

Private activity. We also provide tools that you can use privately on LinkedIn (for example, searching, or adding notes to your connections information.) These actions and information are private and we don't share or distribute them to others on the website.

Of course, maintaining your trust is our top concern, so we adhere to the following principles to protect your privacy:

We do not rent, sell, or otherwise provide your personally identifiable information to third parties without your consent, except as described in this policy or as required by law.
We do not share any information you have not chosen to display on your LinkedIn profile to other parties, unless compelled by law, or as necessary to enforce our User Agreement or protect the rights, property, or personal safety of LinkedIn, its Users, and the public.
All information that you provide will be protected with industry standard protocols and technology.
We reserve the right to modify this Privacy Policy at any time, so please review it frequently. If we make material changes to this policy, we will notify you here, by means of a notice on our home page so that you may access and review the changes to this document in advance of your continued use of the service. If you object to any changes, you may close your account. By continuing to use the LinkedIn service after notice of changes has been sent to you or published on the LinkedIn website, you are consenting to the changes.

Please read this policy and send us questions, concerns and suggestions here.

What LinkedIn’s Privacy Policy Covers:

Information collected by LinkedIn.
How LinkedIn uses your information.
Your information choices.
Your obligations as a User.
Important information regarding service eligibility and US Department of Commerce Safe Harbor certification.
Security.
How to contact us.
Information Collected

The mission of LinkedIn is to connect the world’s professionals to enable them to be more productive and successful. To achieve this mission, LinkedIn makes features and functionality available through our website, including our mobile and other applications, developer platform, premium services, and other information provided as part of the LinkedIn services (“Services”) to enable professionals to develop, maintain and enhance a network of contacts, seek experts and consultants, fill job opportunities, create, share, and distribute information in collaboration with one another. By joining LinkedIn, you voluntarily and willingly provide LinkedIn Corporation in Mountain View California, USA, certain information, including personally identifiable information, which we collect in order to provide the Services. If you have any hesitation about providing information to us and/or having your information displayed on the LinkedIn website or otherwise used in any manner permitted in this Privacy Policy and the User Agreement, you should not become a member of the LinkedIn community; and, if you are already a member, you should close your account.

We collect your personal information in the following ways:

Registration

In order to become a User, you must provide us the following information to create an account: name, email address, country, and password. Without this minimal amount of information, you cannot create a LinkedIn account. Like other passwords, you should choose one that is known only by you. LinkedIn requests other information from you during the registration process, (e.g., gender, location, etc.) that LinkedIn uses to provide better, more customized services such as language-specific profile pages and updates, better ads, and more valuable career opportunities. You acknowledge that this information is personal to you, and by creating an account on LinkedIn, you allow others, including LinkedIn, to identify you and to allow LI to use your information in accordance with our User Agreement.

Profile Information

Once you become a User, you may provide additional information to your LinkedIn Profile describing your skills, professional experiences, educational background, recommendations from other LinkedIn Users, group memberships, and networking objectives (among other options). Providing additional information about yourself beyond what is minimally required at registration is entirely up to you, but providing additional information enables you to derive more benefit from LinkedIn and your professional network by helping you build your professional identity and leverage your professional network and facilitating your search for professional resources, information, and new opportunities. Any information you provide at registration or in the Profile section may be used by LinkedIn as described in the User Agreement and this Privacy Policy, including for the purpose of allowing professional opportunities to find you on LinkedIn, or for serving more relevant advertisements on LinkedIn. Learn more about LinkedIn’s advertising practices by reading this privacy policy, in particular Sections 1.H, 2.J, and 2.K. If you decide not to share certain information, you may not receive the full benefit of being a LinkedIn User.

Contacts Information

In order to connect with others on LinkedIn, you may use the Services to send invitations either to their LinkedIn profiles or email addresses of people you know if they have not registered with LinkedIn. The names and email addresses of people whom you invite will be used to send your invitations and reminders as well as to allow LinkedIn to help expand your network. Please note that when you send an invitation to connect to another User, that User will have access to your email address because it is displayed in the invitation. Your LinkedIn connections will also have access to your email address. You may not invite anyone you do not know and trust to connect with you.

You may also choose to manually enter or upload data about your contacts to the “Contacts” section of your account on LinkedIn. Information entered into Contacts is only viewable by you. By providing email addresses or other information of non-Users to LinkedIn, you represent that you have authority to do so. All information that you enter or upload about your contacts is covered by the User Agreement and this Privacy Policy and will enable us to provide customized services such as suggesting people to connect with on LinkedIn.

Customer Service

We collect information when you interact with LinkedIn’s customer service website in order to accurately categorize and respond to customer inquiries and investigate breaches of our terms.

Using the LinkedIn Site and Applications

We receive information when you interact with and use the LinkedIn website, LinkedIn Applications (e.g. LinkedIn for iPhone, Android, etc.), and LinkedIn platform technology (such as “Share on LinkedIn” plugins for publishers). For example, we know when you click on ads, upload your address book, join groups, participate in polls, install a LinkedIn mobile application, share articles on LinkedIn, etc.

Using Third Party Services and Visiting Third Party Sites

We receive information when you use your LinkedIn account to log in or authenticate to a third-party website or application. Also, if you are logged into LinkedIn and visit a third party site that embeds LinkedIn professional plugins, like “Share on LinkedIn” for web publishers, LinkedIn will receive information that those pages have loaded in your web browser. LinkedIn will use this information to personalize the LinkedIn-provided functionality, including providing you insights from your LinkedIn network, allowing you to share information with your network, enabling you to use LinkedIn functionality off the LinkedIn site and serving you more relevant advertising. Users wishing to disable this personalization may opt-out of this feature as of August 2011. LinkedIn’s retention of this data is addressed in Section 1.K.

Cookies

Like most websites, we use cookies and web log files to track site usage and trends, to improve the quality of our service, to customize your experience on LinkedIn, as well as to deliver LinkedIn and third-party advertising to Users both on and off the LinkedIn site. A cookie is a tiny data file that resides on your computer, mobile phone, or other device, and allows us to recognize you as a User when you return to the LinkedIn website using the same computer and web browser. You can remove or block cookies using the settings in your browser, but in some cases doing so may impact your ability to use LinkedIn. One type of cookie, known as a “persistent” cookie, is set once you’ve logged in to your LinkedIn account. The next time you visit the LinkedIn website, the persistent cookie will allow us to recognize you as an existing User so you will not need to log in before using the Services. In order to access or change any of your private information (like a credit card number) or to send a message to another User, however, you must log in securely again with your password even if your computer contains your persistent cookie. Another type of cookie, called a “session” cookie, is used to identify a particular visit to the LinkedIn website. Session cookies expire after a short time or when you close your web browser. Other technology like Macromedia’s flash can be used to place the functional equivalent of a cookie on your computer. You can control flash “local stored objects” or “flash cookies” using the Macromedia Website Privacy Settings Panel at www.macromedia.com. LinkedIn may use cookie-equivalent technology for the limited purpose of enhancing the security of LinkedIn's services. We do not use flash cookies for advertising purposes.

In the course of serving advertisements or optimizing the Services to our Users, we may allow authorized third parties to place or recognize a unique cookie on your browser. Any information provided to third parties through cookies will not be personally identifiable but may provide general segment information (e.g., your industry or geography, career field, or information about your professional or educational background) for the enhancement of your user experience by providing more relevant advertising. Most browsers are initially set up to accept cookies, but you can reset your browser to refuse all cookies or to indicate when a cookie is being sent. LinkedIn does not store unencrypted personally identifiable information in the cookies.

Advertising and Web Beacons

To support the Services we provide at no cost to our Users, as well as provide a more relevant and useful experience for our Users, we target and serve our own ads and third-party ads both on and off the site using ad networks. Ad networks include third party ad servers, ad agencies, ad exchanges, ad technology vendors and research firms.

We target ads to Users based on general profile categories (e.g., “product managers in Texas”) or on non-personally identifiable information inferred from a User’s profile (e.g., industry, current or former company, school, compensation bracket, gender, age, ethnic origin, nationality, or other aspects of your life) in addition to a User’s use of LinkedIn or their clicking on LinkedIn ad inventory. LinkedIn does not provide personally identifiable information to any third party ad network.

We use ad technology such as web beacons, pixels, anonymous ad network tags, and cookies to more effectively serve ads to our Users on and off LinkedIn through ad networks, as well as to collect anonymized, aggregated auditing, research and reporting for advertisers. Because your web browser requests advertisements and web beacons directly from ad network servers, these networks can view, edit or set their own cookies, just as if you had requested a web page from their site.

You may opt-out of ads served to you off LinkedIn here, by turning off “Partner Advertising.” If you opt-out you may lose certain functionality of the LinkedIn Services, as well as the potential benefit of receiving ads that are targeted to your interests which, in turn, may limit your ability to fully realize the benefits of the LinkedIn Services to build and leverage your professional network.

Log files, IP Addresses and information about your computer and mobile device

Due to the communications standards on the internet, when you visit the LinkedIn website we automatically receive the URL of the site from which you came and the site to which you are going when you leave LinkedIn. Additionally, advertisers receive the URL of the page you were on when you click on an ad on LinkedIn. LinkedIn also receives the internet protocol (“IP”) address of your computer (or the proxy server you use to access the World Wide Web), your computer operating system and type of web browser you are using, email patterns, your mobile device (including your UDID) and mobile operating system (if you are accessing LinkedIn using a mobile device), as well as the name of your ISP or your mobile carrier. LinkedIn may also receive location data passed to it from third-party services or GPS-enabled devices that you have enabled. Also, as described above in Sections 1.E. and 1.F., LinkedIn receives information when you access web pages containing LinkedIn interactive plugins, such as “Share on LinkedIn” or “Apply with LinkedIn” functionality. You can control the collection and use of this information here. The link between your IP address and your personally identifiable information is not shared with third parties without your permission, except as described in Section 2.L (“Compliance with Legal Process”), below.

Rights to Access, Correct and Eliminate Information About You

You have a right to access, modify, correct and eliminate the data you supplied to LinkedIn. If you update any of your information, we may keep a copy of the information that you originally provided to us in our archives for uses documented in this policy. You may request deletion of your information at any time by contacting LinkedIn customer service. We will respond to your request within 30 days. Please note, however that information you have shared with others, or that other Users have copied, may also remain visible even if you request its deletion.

Data Retention

LinkedIn will retain your information for so long as your account is active or as needed to provide you services, except in the case of our professional plugin impression data, which we de-identify after 12 months. If you wish to close your account, you may do so here. We will retain and use your information as necessary to comply with our legal obligations, resolve disputes, and enforce this Agreement.

Uses of personal information

Consent to LinkedIn Processing Information About You

The information you provide to LinkedIn may reveal, or allow others to identify, your nationality, ethnic origin, gender, age, and other aspects of your life. By providing information to us for the purposes of creating your User account or adding any additional details to your LinkedIn profile, you are expressly and voluntarily accepting the terms and conditions of this Privacy Policy and LinkedIn’s User Agreement that allow LinkedIn to process information about you. Supplying information to LinkedIn, including any information deemed “sensitive” by applicable law, is entirely voluntary on your part. You have the right to withdraw your consent to LinkedIn’s collection and processing of your information at any time, in accordance with the terms of this Privacy Policy and the User Agreement, by changing your Settings, or by closing your account, but please note that your withdrawal of consent will not be retroactive.

LinkedIn Communications

As described in the User Agreement, we will communicate with you through email, notices posted on the LinkedIn website, messages to your LinkedIn inbox, or through other means available through the service, including mobile text messages. We may send you a series of emails that help inform new Users about the features of the Services, and we will also send you service messages relating to the functioning of the Services. We may also send you messages with promotional information directly or on behalf of our partners, unless you have opted out of receiving promotional information.

You can change your e-mail and contact preferences at any time by logging into your account and changing your settings related to your email notification choices. If you wish, you can also opt-out of receiving promotional emails by sending a request to LinkedIn customer service through our customer service site.

Please be aware that you cannot opt-out of receiving service messages from LinkedIn. Also, if we send communications to you via the carrier service with which you have a mobile communications subscription or otherwise have access, you understand you will pay any service fees associated with your receipt of messages on your mobile device (including text messaging charges).

User Communications

Many communications you initiate through LinkedIn (e.g., an invitation sent to a non-User) will list your primary email address and name in the header of the message. Messages you initiate may also provide aggregate information about your network (for instance how many people are in your network), but will not list the people to whom you’re directly connected. Other communications that you initiate through the LinkedIn website, like a request for an introduction, will list your name as the initiator but will not include your personal email address contact information. Your contact information will only be shared with another User if both of you have indicated that you would like to establish contact with each other.

Customized Content

We use information you provide to us (or to third parties with whom LinkedIn offers combined services) to customize your experience on our website. For example, when you login to your account, we will display the names of new Users who have recently joined your network or recent status updates from your connections.

Sharing Information with Third Parties

LinkedIn takes the privacy of our Users very seriously, and we do not sell, rent, or otherwise provide your personally identifiable information to third parties, except as described in this policy. We will also not share other personal information not published to your profile or generated through engagement with other LinkedIn services (Groups, Answers, Company Pages, etc.) without your explicit consent or to carry out your instructions (for example, to process payment information) unless, disclosure is reasonably necessary in our opinion to: (1) comply with legal process, including, but not limited to, civil and criminal subpoenas, court orders or other compulsory disclosures; (2) enforce this Agreement; (3) respond to claims of a violation of the rights of third parties, whether or not the third party is a User, individual, or government agency; (4) respond to customer service inquiries; or (5) protect the rights, property, or personal safety of LinkedIn, our Users or the public.

LinkedIn offers a “public profile” feature that allows Users to publish portions of their LinkedIn profile to the public internet. This public profile will be crawled by and displayed through search engines when someone searches for your name. You may opt-out of this feature by editing your account settings; however, LinkedIn does not warrant how often third-party search engines will update their caches, which may contain old public profile information.

Content distributed through LinkedIn’s sharing features and third party integrations may result in displaying some of your information outside of LinkedIn. For example, when you post content to a LinkedIn Group that is open for public discussion, your content, including your name as the contributor, may be displayed in search engine results. Or, if you have bound your LinkedIn account to your Twitter account, you can easily share content into both LinkedIn as well as to Twitter.

We may provide aggregated anonymous data about the usage of the Services to third parties for purposes that we deem, in our sole discretion, to be appropriate, including to prospective advertisers on LinkedIn.

Developers using LinkedIn Platform Services

We collaborate with and allow third parties to use LinkedIn’s developer platform to offer services and functionality in conjunction with and outside of LinkedIn. These third parties are either partners (“LinkedIn Partners”) with whom we have negotiated an agreement to provide services (“Combined Services”), for example, InApps, or developers (“Platform Developers”) who have agreed to our developer terms in order to build applications (“Platform Applications”). Both the negotiated agreements and our API terms and conditions contain restrictions on access, storage and use of your information.

If you choose to use Combined Services or a Platform Application, you may be asked to confirm acceptance of the privacy policy and/or user agreement of the LinkedIn Partner or Platform Developer, which have not necessarily been reviewed or approved by LinkedIn. It is your choice whether or not to make use of Combined Services or Platform Applications and whether to proceed under any third party terms, and once you do, the third party's terms, and not this policy, will govern how they handle information you provide to them directly or through your LinkedIn account.

Also, despite our agreements and technical steps taken to restrict access to and avoid possible misuse of information, we may not screen or audit all Combined Services or Platform Applications. We also cannot guarantee that any LinkedIn Partner or Platform Developer will abide by our agreement. You agree that your use of Combined Services or Platform Applications is on an “as is” basis and without any warranty.

If you use any Combined Service or Platform Application, the LinkedIn Partner or Platform Developer may access and share certain information about you, such as non-public profile information and information visible only to your connections. This includes information about your connections by virtue of you being connected to others. However, unless you have used a Combined Service or Platform Application, it can only access the information about you that is otherwise visible to other LinkedIn Users.

To revoke permission granted to a Combined Service or Platform Application at any time, please visit the settings page. If the relevant Platform Developer or Application, or LinkedIn Partner is not listed under Authorized Applications, go directly to the Application Details page for the Platform Application you wish to uninstall. Note, however, that even if you revoke the permission granted a third party, your connections, other members of your network, or other Users of LinkedIn may still be using the Platform Application, so the Platform Application or Combined Service may still have access to certain information about you, just as those Users do. You may opt-out of providing information to third parties through others connected to you by accessing the “Turn on/off data sharing with third-party applications” control in the “Groups, Companies, and Applications” tab under settings. To report any suspected misuse of information, contact LinkedIn’s customer service. LinkedIn is not responsible for your use of or inability to use any Combined Service or Platform Application, including the content, accuracy, or reliability of applications and the privacy practices or other policies of LinkedIn Partners or Platform Developers.

Polls and Surveys

Polls and Surveys may be conducted by LinkedIn, LinkedIn Users or third parties. As a User, you may be invited to participate in polls and surveys from the LinkedIn website. Your selection may be random, or it may be based on your non-personally identifiable information, such as job title, geography, company size and/or industry. Whether or not you decide to participate in a poll or survey is completely up to you.

After you complete a poll, you will be given access to the aggregate responses of the poll on a results page. Some third parties may target advertisements to you on the results page based on your answers in the poll. Further, LinkedIn or third parties may follow up with you via InMail regarding your participation unless you have opted out of receiving InMail messages.

We may use third parties to deliver incentives to you to participate in surveys or polls. If the delivery of incentives requires your contact information, you may be asked to provide personally identifiable information to the third party fulfilling the incentive offer, which will only be used for the purpose of delivering incentives and/or verifying your contact information. It is up to you whether you provide this information, or whether you desire to take advantage of an incentive.

We will not disclose any personally identifiable information to any third parties in connection with the conduct of any polls or surveys. Your consent to use any personally identifiable information for the purposes set forth in the poll or survey will be explicitly requested by the party conducting it. LinkedIn is a member of the Council of American Survey Research Organizations (“CASRO”) and abides by CASRO guidelines for market research. You may opt-out of participating in Surveys by changing your settings to stop receiving these inquiries and requests.

Search

We offer search services to help find information and learn more about other Users (for example, you can search for Users with particular expertise or consulting experience, or that you may know from your industry or profession), as well as employment opportunities. LinkedIn search also allows Users to find jobs, companies, and contributions to the community aspects of the LinkedIn Services, such as Groups and Answers that will help Users more effectively use LinkedIn and expand their network. We use information from User profiles and contributions to Groups, Company Pages, and Answers to inform and refine our search service.

Answers, Groups, and other Services

If you post on the Answers section of LinkedIn, participate in LinkedIn Groups, or import a blog, you should be aware that any personally identifiable information you choose to provide there can be read, collected, or used by other Users of these forums, as well as Platform Developers and other third parties, and could be used to send you unsolicited messages. LinkedIn is not responsible for the information you choose to submit in these forums. Also, some content in LinkedIn Groups may be public and searchable on the internet if the Group owner has opened the group for public discussions. You can delete your posts to Answers and LinkedIn Groups at any time. However, please note that ideas you post and information you share may be seen and used by other Users, and LinkedIn cannot guarantee that other Users have not made copies of or use the ideas and information that you share with others on LinkedIn.

Testimonials and Advertisements Placed through LinkedIn Ads Service

If you provide any testimonials about the LinkedIn Services or place advertisements through the LinkedIn Ads, we may post those testimonials and examples of advertisements you place in connection with our promotion of these services to third parties. Testimonials and advertisements may include your name and other personal information that you have provided. For more information about LinkedIn Ads please see the LinkedIn Ads Terms of Use.

Advertising and Endorsements on LinkedIn

In order to deliver relevant and valuable ads to you and your network, LinkedIn may use your name and profile photo in connection with social advertising based on content shared on LinkedIn. This advertising may include the fact that you have recommended or endorsed a product or service on LinkedIn, followed a company, joined Groups or conversations, established or added content to your profile, etc., and will only be displayed to your LinkedIn network. You can opt-out of allowing your name and/or profile photo to be used in social ads here.

Compliance with Legal Process

It is possible that we may need to disclose personal information, profile information and/or information about your activities as a LinkedIn User when required by subpoena or other legal process, or if LinkedIn has a good faith belief that disclosure is necessary to (a) investigate, prevent or take action regarding suspected or actual illegal activities or to assist government enforcement agencies; (b) to enforce the User Agreement, to investigate and defend ourselves against any third party claims or allegations, or to protect the security or integrity of our site; and/or (c) to exercise or protect the rights, property or personal safety of LinkedIn, our Users, employees, or others.

Disclosures to Others as the Result of a Change in Control or Sale of LinkedIn Corporation

We may also disclose your personal information and other information you provide to another third party as part of a sale of the assets of LinkedIn Corporation, a subsidiary or division, or as the result of a change in control of the company. Any third party to which LinkedIn transfers or sells LinkedIn’s assets will have the right to continue to use the personal and other information that you provide to us.

Your Information Choices

Accessing and Changing Your Account Information

You can review the personal information you provided to us and make any desired changes to the information you publish, or to the settings for your LinkedIn account including your email and contact preferences, at any time by logging in to your account on the LinkedIn website. Please be aware that even after your request for a change is processed, LinkedIn may, for a time, retain residual information about you in its backup and/or archival copies of its database.

Default Settings

Because the mission of LinkedIn is to connect the world’s professionals to enable them to become more productive and successful, we have established what we believe to be reasonable default settings that we have found most professionals desire. Because Users may use and interact with LinkedIn in a variety of ways, and because those uses may change over time, we designed our settings to provide our users granular control over the information they share. We encourage our Users to review their account settings and adjust them in accordance with their preferences.

LinkedIn accounts are also defaulted to allow Users to be contacted to participate in polls, surveys and partner advertising. Click here to change these settings.

Closing Your Account

You can close your account through the LinkedIn customer service site. If you close your LinkedIn account, we will remove your name and other personally identifiable information from our publicly viewable database. If you close your account, we have no obligation to retain your information, and may delete any or all of your account information without liability. However, we may retain certain data contributed by you if LinkedIn believes it may be necessary to prevent fraud or future abuse, or for legitimate business purposes, such as analysis of aggregated, non-personally identifiable data, account recovery, or if required by law. LinkedIn may also retain and use your information if necessary to provide the Services to other Users. For example, just as an email you may send to another person through an email service provider resides in that person’s inbox even after you delete it from your sent files or close your account, emails or InMails you send on LinkedIn to other Users, as well as your contributions to LinkedIn Answers or Groups, may remain visible to others after you have closed your account. Similarly, other information you have shared with others, or that other Users have copied, may also remain visible. LinkedIn disclaims any liability in relation to the deletion or retention (subject to the terms herein) of information or any obligation not to delete the information. LinkedIn does not control when search engines update their cache, which may contain certain public profile information that has since been removed from LinkedIn’s publicly viewable database.

Memorializing Accounts

If we learn that a User is deceased, we may memorialize the User’s account. In these cases we may restrict profile access, remove messaging functionality, and close an account if we receive a formal request from the User’s next of kin or other proper legal request to do so.

Your Obligations

As a User, you have certain obligations to other Users. Some of these obligations are imposed by applicable law and regulations, and others have become commonplace in user-friendly communities of like-minded members such as LinkedIn:

You must, at all times, abide by the terms and conditions of the then-current Privacy Policy and User Agreement. This includes respecting all intellectual property rights that may belong to third parties (such as trademarks or photographs).
You must not download or otherwise disseminate any information that may be deemed to be injurious, violent, offensive, racist or xenophobic, or which may otherwise violate the purpose and spirit of LinkedIn and its community of Users.
You must not provide to LinkedIn and/or other Users information that you believe might be injurious or detrimental to your person or to your professional or social status.
You must keep your username and password confidential and not share it with others.
Any violation of these guidelines may lead to the restriction, suspension or termination of your account at the sole discretion of LinkedIn.

Important information

Children and Minors

Children under the age of 18 are not eligible to use our service.

TRUSTe and Safe Harbor

LinkedIn has been awarded TRUSTe's Privacy Seal signifying that this privacy policy and its practices have been reviewed by TRUSTe for compliance with TRUSTe's program requirements including transparency, accountability and choice regarding the collection and use of your personal information. TRUSTe's mission, as an independent third party, is to accelerate online trust among consumers and organizations globally through its leading privacy trustmark and innovative trust solutions.

LinkedIn Corp participates in the EU Safe Harbor Privacy Framework as administered by the United States Department of Commerce as a data controller, and has self-certified our privacy practices as consistent with U.S.-E.U. Safe Harbor principles: Notice, Choice, Onward Transfer, Access and Accuracy, Security, Data Integrity and Enforcement. As part of our participation in the Safe Harbor Privacy Framework, LinkedIn has agreed to TRUSTe dispute resolution for disputes relating to our compliance with it.

Please note that by becoming a User, you have given us your express and informed consent to transfer the data that you provide to us to the United States and to process it in the United States.

If Users have questions or concerns regarding this Privacy Policy, including the Safe Harbor Privacy Framework, you should first contact LinkedIn here. If you do not receive acknowledgment of your inquiry or it is not satisfactorily addressed, you may raise your complaint with TRUSTe on their website accessible here, by fax at +1-415-520-3420, or mail at WatchDog Complaints, TRUSTe, 55 2nd Street, 2nd Floor San Francisco, CA, USA 94105. TRUSTe will serve as a liaison with LinkedIn to resolve Users' concerns. If you are faxing or mailing TRUSTe to lodge a complaint, you must include the following information: the name of the company, the alleged privacy violation, your contact information, and whether you would like the particulars of your complaint shared with the company. The TRUSTe complaint resolution process shall be conducted in English, regardless of your country of residence.

Please understand that the TRUSTe program only covers information collected through the website www.linkedin.com, and does not cover information that may be collected through software downloaded from our website like the LinkedIn Toolbar or the Firefox or Outlook Plugins.

Changes to this Privacy Policy

We may update this Privacy Policy at any time, with or without advance notice. In the event there are significant changes in the way we treat your personally identifiable information, or in the Privacy Policy document itself, we will display a notice on the LinkedIn website or send you an email, so that you may review the changed terms prior to continuing to use the site. As always, if you object to any of the changes to our terms, and you no longer wish to use LinkedIn, you may close your account. Unless stated otherwise, our current Privacy Policy applies to all information that LinkedIn has about you and your account.

Using the LinkedIn Services after a notice of changes has been sent to you or published on our site shall constitute consent to the changed terms or practices.

Security

In order to help secure your personal information, access to your data on LinkedIn is password-protected, and sensitive data (such as credit card information) is protected by SSL encryption when it is exchanged between your web browser and the LinkedIn website. To protect any data you store on our servers, LinkedIn also regularly audits its system for possible vulnerabilities and attacks, and we use a tier-one secured-access data center. However, since the internet is not a 100% secure environment, we cannot ensure or warrant the security of any information you transmit to LinkedIn. There is no guarantee that information may not be accessed, disclosed, altered, or destroyed by breach of any of our physical, technical, or managerial safeguards. It is your responsibility to protect the security of your login information. Please note that emails, instant messaging, and similar means of communication with other Users of LinkedIn are not encrypted, and we strongly advise you not to communicate any confidential information through these means.

How to contact us

If you have questions or comments about this Privacy Policy, please contact us here or contact us at:

LinkedIn Corporation
Attn: Legal Department, Privacy Policy Issues
2029 Stierlin Court
Mountain View,CA 94043
USA

Privacy Policy
Your privacy is critically important to us. At Automattic we have a few fundamental principles:

We don’t ask you for personal information unless we truly need it. (We can’t stand services that ask you for things like your gender or income level for no apparent reason.)
We don’t share your personal information with anyone except to comply with the law, develop our products, or protect our rights.
We don’t store personal information on our servers unless required for the on-going operation of one of our services.
In our blogging products, we aim to make it as simple as possible for you to control what’s visible to the public, seen by search engines, kept private, and permanently deleted.
Below is our privacy policy which incorporates these goals: (Note, we’ve decided to make this privacy policy available under a Creative Commons Sharealike license, which means you’re more than welcome to steal it and repurpose it for your own use, just make sure to replace references to us with ones to you, and if you want we’d appreciate a link to Automattic.com somewhere on your site. We spent a lot of money and time on the below, and other people shouldn’t need to do the same.)

If you have questions about deleting or correcting your personal data please contact our support team.

Automattic Inc. (“Automattic”) operates several websites including automattic.com, wordpress.com, gravatar.com, intensedebate.com, and akismet.com. It is Automattic’s policy to respect your privacy regarding any information we may collect while operating our websites.

Website Visitors
Like most website operators, Automattic collects non-personally-identifying information of the sort that web browsers and servers typically make available, such as the browser type, language preference, referring site, and the date and time of each visitor request. Automattic’s purpose in collecting non-personally identifying information is to better understand how Automattic’s visitors use its website. From time to time, Automattic may release non-personally-identifying information in the aggregate, e.g., by publishing a report on trends in the usage of its website.

Automattic also collects potentially personally-identifying information like Internet Protocol (IP) addresses for logged in users and for users leaving comments on WordPress.com blogs. Automattic only discloses logged in user and commenter IP addresses under the same circumstances that it uses and discloses personally-identifying information as described below, except that blog commenter IP addresses are visible and disclosed to the administrators of the blog where the comment was left.

Gathering of Personally-Identifying Information
Certain visitors to Automattic’s websites choose to interact with Automattic in ways that require Automattic to gather personally-identifying information. The amount and type of information that Automattic gathers depends on the nature of the interaction. For example, we ask visitors who sign up for a blog at WordPress.com to provide a username and email address. Those who engage in transactions with Automattic – by purchasing access to the Akismet comment spam prevention service, for example – are asked to provide additional information, including as necessary the personal and financial information required to process those transactions. In each case, Automattic collects such information only insofar as is necessary or appropriate to fulfill the purpose of the visitor’s interaction with Automattic. Automattic does not disclose personally-identifying information other than as described below. And visitors can always refuse to supply personally-identifying information, with the caveat that it may prevent them from engaging in certain website-related activities.

Aggregated Statistics
Automattic may collect statistics about the behavior of visitors to its websites. For instance, Automattic may monitor the most popular blogs on the WordPress.com site or use spam screened by the Akismet service to help identify spam. Automattic may display this information publicly or provide it to others. However, Automattic does not disclose personally-identifying information other than as described below.

Protection of Certain Personally-Identifying Information
Automattic discloses potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information only to those of its employees, contractors and affiliated organizations that (i) need to know that information in order to process it on Automattic’s behalf or to provide services available at Automattic’s websites, and (ii) that have agreed not to disclose it to others. Some of those employees, contractors and affiliated organizations may be located outside of your home country; by using Automattic’s websites, you consent to the transfer of such information to them. Automattic will not rent or sell potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information to anyone. Other than to its employees, contractors and affiliated organizations, as described above, Automattic discloses potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information only in response to a subpoena, court order or other governmental request, or when Automattic believes in good faith that disclosure is reasonably necessary to protect the property or rights of Automattic, third parties or the public at large. If you are a registered user of an Automattic website and have supplied your email address, Automattic may occasionally send you an email to tell you about new features, solicit your feedback, or just keep you up to date with what’s going on with Automattic and our products. We primarily use our various product blogs to communicate this type of information, so we expect to keep this type of email to a minimum. If you send us a request (for example via a support email or via one of our feedback mechanisms), we reserve the right to publish it in order to help us clarify or respond to your request or to help us support other users. Automattic takes all measures reasonably necessary to protect against the unauthorized access, use, alteration or destruction of potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information.

Cookies
A cookie is a string of information that a website stores on a visitor’s computer, and that the visitor’s browser provides to the website each time the visitor returns. Automattic uses cookies to help Automattic identify and track visitors, their usage of Automattic website, and their website access preferences. Automattic visitors who do not wish to have cookies placed on their computers should set their browsers to refuse cookies before using Automattic’s websites, with the drawback that certain features of Automattic’s websites may not function properly without the aid of cookies.

Business Transfers
If Automattic, or substantially all of its assets were acquired, or in the unlikely event that Automattic goes out of business or enters bankruptcy, user information would be one of the assets that is transferred or acquired by a third party. You acknowledge that such transfers may occur, and that any acquirer of Automattic may continue to use your personal information as set forth in this policy.

Ads
Ads appearing on any of our websites may be delivered to users by advertising partners, who may set cookies. These cookies allow the ad server to recognize your computer each time they send you an online advertisement to compile information about you or others who use your computer. This information allows ad networks to, among other things, deliver targeted advertisements that they believe will be of most interest to you. This Privacy Policy covers the use of cookies by Automattic and does not cover the use of cookies by any advertisers.

Comments
Comments and other content submitted to our Akismet anti-spam service are not saved on our servers unless they were marked as false positives, in which case we store them long enough to use them to improve the service to avoid future false positives.

Privacy Policy Changes
Although most changes are likely to be minor, Automattic may change its Privacy Policy from time to time, and in Automattic’s sole discretion. Automattic encourages visitors to frequently check this page for any changes to its Privacy Policy. If you have a WordPress.com account, you should also check your blog’s dashboard for alerts to these changes. Your continued use of this site after any change in this Privacy Policy will constitute your acceptance of such change.

Summary of our Privacy Policy
This policy tells you about how we use and protect your personal information. To see a summary of this policy, and for more information to answer your privacy concerns, please go to our Privacy Central page. We are a TRUSTe licensee. If we do not respond to your question, please contact TRUSTe. The TRUSTe program covers only information that is collected through the websites covered by this policy. It does not cover information that may be collected through software downloaded from these sites.

This Privacy Policy describes how we handle your personal information for our services on the eBay websites, tools, applications, and services. It applies generally to the eBay.com website and content and other related websites where this policy appears in the footer of the page. Some eBay-branded websites or websites we operate may be governed by separate privacy policies. The policy that applies on any of our domains or subdomains is always the policy that appears in the footer of each website.

By accepting the Privacy Policy and the User Agreement in registration, you expressly consent to our collection, storage, use and disclosure of your personal information as described in this Privacy Policy. This Privacy Policy is effective upon acceptance for new users and is otherwise effective on June 1, 2011.

Binding Corporate Rules

In addition to the privacy practices set out in this Privacy Policy, eBay Inc. has established a set of Corporate Rules (also referred to as Binding Corporate Rules), approved by a number of European Union privacy regulators. These Corporate Rules are a commitment by eBay Inc. to adequately protect your personal information regardless of where the data resides, and depending upon your location, may provide additional privacy rights through your privacy regulator or a court. If you would like additional information regarding the Corporate Rules contact us via the contact details below.

Collection

You can browse our sites without telling us who you are or revealing any personal information about yourself. Once you give us your personal information, you are not anonymous to us. If you choose to provide us with personal information, you consent to the transfer and storage of that information on our servers located in the United States.

We may collect and store the following personal information:
email address, phone number, physical contact information, and (depending on the service used) sometimes financial information, such as credit card or bank account numbers;
transactional information based on your activities on the sites (such as bidding, buying, selling, item and content you generate or that relates to your account);
shipping, billing and other information you provide to purchase or ship an item;
community discussions, chats, dispute resolution, correspondence through our sites, and correspondence sent to us;
other information from your interaction with our sites, services, content and advertising, including device ID, computer and connection information, statistics on page views, traffic to and from the sites, ad data, IP address and standard web log information;
additional information we ask you to submit to authenticate yourself or if we believe you are violating site policies (for example, we may ask you to send us an ID or bill to verify your address, or to answer additional questions online to help verify your identity or ownership of an item you list);
information from other companies, such as demographic and navigation data; and
other supplemental information from third parties (for example, if you incur a debt to eBay, we will generally conduct a credit check by obtaining additional information about you from a credit bureau, as permitted by law).
Marketing

We don't sell or rent your personal information to third parties for their marketing purposes without your explicit consent. We may combine your information with information we collect from other companies and use it to improve and personalize our services, content and advertising. If you don't wish to receive marketing communications from us or participate in our ad-customization programs, simply indicate your preference in My eBay or by following the directions provided with the communication or advertisement.

Use

Our primary purpose in collecting personal information is to provide you with a safe, smooth, efficient, and customized experience. You agree that we may use your personal information to:
provide the services and customer support you request;
resolve disputes, collect fees, and troubleshoot problems;
prevent, detect, and investigate potentially prohibited or illegal activities, and enforce our User Agreement;
customize, measure and improve our services, content and advertising;
tell you about our services and those of our corporate family, deliver targeted marketing, service updates, and promotional offers based on your communication preferences; and
compare information for accuracy, and verify it with third parties;
send autodialed and prerecorded messages regarding transactions and fee collections to the telephone numbers (including wireless and cellular) you have provided us;
and other uses as described when we collect the information.
Registration and sharing through third-party services.
We may offer single sign-on services that allow you to use third party login credentials to sign into eBay. With your permission, eBay may also transfer to eBay profile information contained in your third-party profile. eBay may also, for your use, enable you to import information about who you are connected to, as well as enable you to share information with those third-party sites. If you wish to discontinue such sharing, you will be able to do so through your preference page.

Our Disclosure of Your Information

We may disclose personal information to respond to legal requirements, enforce our policies, respond to claims that a listing or other content violates the rights of others, or protect anyone's rights, property, or safety. Such information will be disclosed in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.

We may also share your personal information with:
Members of the eBay Inc. corporate family—like PayPal or Shopping.com—to provide joint content and services (like registration, transactions and customer support), to help detect and prevent potentially illegal acts and violations of our policies, and to guide decisions about their products, services and communications. Members of our corporate family will use this information to send you marketing communications only if you’ve requested their services.
Service providers under contract who help with our business operations (such as fraud investigations, bill collection, affiliate and rewards programs and co-branded credit cards).
Other third parties to whom you explicitly ask us to send your information (or about whom you are otherwise explicitly notified and consent to when using a specific service).
Law enforcement, governmental agencies, or authorized third-parties, in response to a verified request relating to a criminal investigation or alleged illegal activity or any other activity that may expose us, you, or any other eBay user to legal liability. In such events, we will disclose information relevant to the investigation, such as name, city, state, ZIP code, telephone number, email address, User ID history, IP address, fraud complaints, bidding and listing history, and anything else we may deem relevant to the investigation.
eBay VeRO Program participants under confidentiality agreement, as we in our sole discretion believe necessary or appropriate in connection with an investigation of fraud, intellectual property infringement, piracy, or other unlawful activity. In such events, we will disclose name, street address, city, state, ZIP code, country, phone number, email address and company name.
Other business entities, should we plan to merge with or be acquired by that business entity. (Should such a combination occur, we will require that the new combined entity follow this Privacy Policy with respect to your personal information. If your personal information will be used contrary to this policy, you will receive prior notice.)
Without limiting the above, in an effort to respect your privacy and our ability to keep the community free from bad actors, we will not otherwise disclose your personal information to law enforcement, other government officials, or other third parties without a subpoena, court order or substantially similar legal procedure, except when we believe in good faith that the disclosure of information is necessary to prevent imminent physical harm or financial loss or to report suspected illegal activity.

Information You Share on eBay

Your User ID is displayed throughout eBay (and so available to the public), and is connected to all of your eBay activity. Other people can see your bids, purchases, items for sale, storefronts, Feedback, ratings and associated comments. Notices sent to other community members about suspicious activity and policy violations on our sites refer to User IDs and specific items. So if you associate your name with your User ID, the people to whom you have revealed your name will be able to personally identify your eBay activities.

If you access our sites from a shared computer or a computer in an internet café, certain information about you, such as your User ID, activity or reminders from eBay, may also be visible to other individuals who use the computer after you.

Using Information from eBay

eBay enables you to share personal and financial information to complete transactions and collect payments. We encourage you to disclose your privacy practices and respect the privacy of other users. We cannot guarantee the privacy or security of your information and therefore we encourage you to evaluate the privacy and security policies of your trading partner before entering into a transaction and choosing to share your information. To help protect your privacy, we allow only limited access to other users' contact, shipping and financial information to facilitate your transactions and collect payments. When users are involved in a transaction, they may have access to each other's name, User ID, email address and other contact and shipping information. In all cases, you must give other users a chance to remove themselves from your database and a chance to review what information you have collected about them.

You agree to use user information only for:
eBay transaction-related purposes that are not unsolicited commercial messages;
using services offered through eBay (such as escrow, shipping, and fraud complaints), or
other purposes that a user expressly chooses.
Cookies

We use "cookies" (small files placed on your hard drive) on certain of our pages to help analyze our web page flow; customize our services, content and advertising; measure promotional effectiveness, and promote trust and safety. For more information about why we use cookies, see Cookies, Web Beacons, and Your Privacy.

A few important things you should know about cookies are that:
We offer certain features that are available only through the use of cookies.
We use cookies to help identify you and maintain your signed-in status.
Most cookies are "session cookies," meaning that they are automatically deleted from your hard drive at the end of a session.
You are always free to decline our cookies if your browser permits, although doing so may interfere with your use of some of our sites or services.
You may encounter cookies from third parties on certain pages of the sites that we do not control. (For example, if you view a web page created by another user, there may be a cookie placed by that web page.)
No Spam, Spyware or Spoofing

We and our users do not tolerate spam. Make sure to set your eBay communication preferences so we communicate to you as you prefer. You are not licensed to add other eBay users, even a user who has purchased an item from you, to your mailing list (email or physical mail) without their express consent. To report eBay-related spam or spoof emails to eBay, please forward the email to spam@ebay.com or spoof@ebay.com. You may not use our communication tools to send spam or otherwise send content that would violate our User Agreement. We automatically scan and may manually filter messages to check for spam, viruses, phishing attacks and other malicious activity or illegal or prohibited content, but we do not permanently store messages sent through these tools. If you send an email to an email address that is not registered in our community (via Refer-a-Friend or other tools), we do not permanently store that email or use that email address for any marketing purpose. We do not rent or sell these email addresses.

Account Protection

Your password is the key to your account. Use unique numbers, letters and special characters, and do not disclose your eBay password to anyone. If you do share your password or your personal information with others, remember that you are responsible for all actions taken in the name of your account. If you lose control of your password, you may lose substantial control over your personal information and may be subject to legally binding actions taken on your behalf. Therefore, if your password has been compromised for any reason, you should immediately notify eBay and change your password.

Accessing, Reviewing and Changing Your Personal Information

You can see, review and change most of your personal information by signing on to eBay. Generally, we will not manually modify your personal information because it is very difficult to verify your identity remotely. You must promptly update your personal information if it changes or is inaccurate. Once you make a public posting, you may not be able to change or remove it. Upon your request, we will close your account and remove your personal information from view as soon as reasonably possible, based on your account activity and in accordance with applicable law. We do retain personal information from closed accounts to comply with law, prevent fraud, collect any fees owed, resolve disputes, troubleshoot problems, assist with any investigations, enforce our eBay User Agreement, and take other actions otherwise permitted by law.

Security

Your information is stored on our servers located in the United States. We treat data as an asset that must be protected and use lots of tools (encryption, passwords, physical security, etc.) to protect your personal information against unauthorized access and disclosure. However, as you probably know, third parties may unlawfully intercept or access transmissions or private communications, and other users may abuse or misuse your personal information that they collect from the site. Therefore, although we work very hard to protect your privacy, we do not promise, and you should not expect, that your personal information or private communications will always remain private.

Third Parties

Except as otherwise expressly included in this Privacy Policy, this document addresses only the use and disclosure of information we collect from you. If you disclose your information to others, whether they are bidders, buyers or sellers on our sites or other sites throughout the internet, different rules may apply to their use or disclosure of the information you disclose to them. eBay does not control the privacy policies of third parties, and you are subject to the privacy policies of those third parties where applicable. We encourage you to ask questions before you disclose your personal information to others.

General

We may amend this Privacy Policy at any time by posting the amended terms on this site. All amended terms automatically take effect 30 days after they are initially posted on the site. In addition, we will notify you through the eBay Message Center. If your questions are not answered online, you may write to us at: eBay Inc. Attn: Legal - Global Privacy Practices, 2145 Hamilton Avenue, San Jose, California 95125, or using the Contact Us form.

Privacy Policy
Your privacy is important to Apple. So we’ve developed a Privacy Policy that covers how we collect, use, disclose, transfer, and store your information. Please take a moment to familiarize yourself with our privacy practices and let us know if you have any questions.

Collection and Use of Personal Information

Personal information is data that can be used to uniquely identify or contact a single person.

You may be asked to provide your personal information anytime you are in contact with Apple or an Apple affiliated company. Apple and its affiliates may share this personal information with each other and use it consistent with this Privacy Policy. They may also combine it with other information to provide and improve our products, services, content, and advertising.

Here are some examples of the types of personal information Apple may collect and how we may use it.

What personal information we collect
When you create an Apple ID, register your products, apply for commercial credit, purchase a product, download a software update, register for a class at an Apple Retail Store, or participate in an online survey, we may collect a variety of information, including your name, mailing address, phone number, email address, contact preferences, and credit card information.
When you share your content with family and friends using Apple products, send gift certificates and products, or invite others to join you on Apple forums, Apple may collect the information you provide about those people such as name, mailing address, email address, and phone number.
In the U.S., we may ask for your Social Security number (SSN) but only in limited circumstances such as when setting up a wireless account and activating your iPhone or when determining whether to extend commercial credit.
How we use your personal information
The personal information we collect allows us to keep you posted on Apple’s latest product announcements, software updates, and upcoming events. It also helps us to improve our services, content, and advertising. If you don’t want to be on our mailing list, you can opt out anytime by updating your preferences.
We also use personal information to help us develop, deliver, and improve our products, services, content, and advertising.
From time to time, we may use your personal information to send important notices, such as communications about purchases and changes to our terms, conditions, and policies. Because this information is important to your interaction with Apple, you may not opt out of receiving these communications.
We may also use personal information for internal purposes such as auditing, data analysis, and research to improve Apple’s products, services, and customer communications.
If you enter into a sweepstake, contest, or similar promotion we may use the information you provide to administer those programs.
Collection and Use of Non-Personal Information

We also collect non-personal information - data in a form that does not permit direct association with any specific individual. We may collect, use, transfer, and disclose non-personal information for any purpose. The following are some examples of non-personal information that we collect and how we may use it:

We may collect information such as occupation, language, zip code, area code, unique device identifier, location, and the time zone where an Apple product is used so that we can better understand customer behavior and improve our products, services, and advertising.
We also may collect information regarding customer activities on our website, iCloud and MobileMe services, and iTunes Store and from our other products and services. This information is aggregated and used to help us provide more useful information to our customers and to understand which parts of our website, products, and services are of most interest. Aggregated data is considered non-personal information for the purposes of this Privacy Policy.
If we do combine non-personal information with personal information the combined information will be treated as personal information for as long as it remains combined.

Cookies and Other Technologies

Apple’s website, online services, interactive applications, email messages, and advertisements may use “cookies” and other technologies such as pixel tags and web beacons. These technologies help us better understand user behavior, tell us which parts of our website people have visited, and facilitate and measure the effectiveness of advertisements and web searches. We treat information collected by cookies and other technologies as non-personal information. However, to the extent that Internet Protocol (IP) addresses or similar identifiers are considered personal information by local law, we also treat these identifiers as personal information. Similarly, to the extent that non-personal information is combined with personal information, we treat the combined information as personal information for the purposes of this Privacy Policy.

Apple and its partners use cookies and other technologies in mobile advertising services to control the number of times you see a given ad, deliver ads that relate to your interests, and measure the effectiveness of ad campaigns. If you do not want to receive ads with this level of relevance on your mobile device, you can opt out by accessing the following link on your device: http://oo.apple.com. If you opt out, you will continue to receive the same number of mobile ads, but they may be less relevant because they will not be based on your interests. You may still see ads related to the content on a web page or in an application or based on other non-personal information. This opt-out applies only to Apple advertising services and does not affect interest-based advertising from other advertising networks.

Apple and our partners also use cookies and other technologies to remember personal information when you use our website, online services, and applications. Our goal in these cases is to make your experience with Apple more convenient and personal. For example, knowing your first name lets us welcome you the next time you visit the Apple Online Store. Knowing your country and language - and if you are an educator, your school - helps us provide a customized and more useful shopping experience. Knowing someone using your computer or device has shopped for a certain product or used a particular service helps us make our advertising and email communications more relevant to your interests. And knowing your contact information, product serial numbers, and information about your computer or device helps us register your products, personalize your operating system, set up your iCloud service, and provide you with better customer service.

If you want to disable cookies and you’re using the Safari web browser, go to Safari preferences and then to the Security pane to disable cookies. On your Apple mobile device, go to Settings, then Safari, and then to the Cookies section. For other browsers, check with your provider to find out how to disable cookies. Please note that certain features of the Apple website will not be available once cookies are disabled.

As is true of most websites, we gather some information automatically and store it in log files. This information includes Internet Protocol (IP) addresses, browser type and language, Internet service provider (ISP), referring and exit pages, operating system, date/time stamp, and clickstream data.

We use this information to understand and analyze trends, to administer the site, to learn about user behavior on the site, and to gather demographic information about our user base as a whole. Apple may use this information in our marketing and advertising services.

In some of our email messages, we use a “click-through URL” linked to content on the Apple website. When customers click one of these URLs, they pass through a separate web server before arriving at the destination page on our website. We track this click-through data to help us determine interest in particular topics and measure the effectiveness of our customer communications. If you prefer not to be tracked in this way, you should not click text or graphic links in the email messages.

Pixel tags enable us to send email messages in a format customers can read, and they tell us whether mail has been opened. We may use this information to reduce or eliminate messages sent to customers. 

Disclosure to Third Parties

At times Apple may make certain personal information available to strategic partners that work with Apple to provide products and services, or that help Apple market to customers. For example, when you purchase and activate your iPhone, you authorize Apple and its carrier to exchange the information you provide during the activation process to carry out service. If you are approved for service, your account will be governed by Apple and its carrier’s respective privacy policies. Personal information will only be shared by Apple to provide or improve our products, services and advertising; it will not be shared with third parties for their marketing purposes.

Service Providers
Apple shares personal information with companies who provide services such as information processing, extending credit, fulfilling customer orders, delivering products to you, managing and enhancing customer data, providing customer service, assessing your interest in our products and services, and conducting customer research or satisfaction surveys. These companies are obligated to protect your information and may be located wherever Apple operates.

Others
It may be necessary - by law, legal process, litigation, and/or requests from public and governmental authorities within or outside your country of residence - for Apple to disclose your personal information. We may also disclose information about you if we determine that for purposes of national security, law enforcement, or other issues of public importance, disclosure is necessary or appropriate.

We may also disclose information about you if we determine that disclosure is reasonably necessary to enforce our terms and conditions or protect our operations or users. Additionally, in the event of a reorganization, merger, or sale we may transfer any and all personal information we collect to the relevant third party.

Protection of Personal Information

Apple takes precautions — including administrative, technical, and physical measures — to safeguard your personal information against loss, theft, and misuse, as well as against unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration, and destruction.

Apple online services such as the Apple Online Store and iTunes Store use Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) encryption on all web pages where personal information is collected. To make purchases from these services, you must use an SSL-enabled browser such as Safari, Firefox, or Internet Explorer. Doing so protects the confidentiality of your personal information while it’s transmitted over the Internet.

When you use some Apple products, services, or applications or post on an Apple forum, chat room, or social networking service, the personal information you share is visible to other users and can be read, collected, or used by them. You are responsible for the personal information you choose to submit in these instances. For example, if you list your name and email address in a forum posting, that information is public. Please take care when using these features.

Integrity and Retention of Personal Information

Apple makes it easy for you to keep your personal information accurate, complete, and up to date. We will retain your personal information for the period necessary to fulfill the purposes outlined in this Privacy Policy unless a longer retention period is required or permitted by law.

Access to Personal Information

You can help ensure that your contact information and preferences are accurate, complete, and up to date by logging in to your account at https://appleid.apple.com/. For other personal information, we make good faith efforts to provide you with access so you can request that we correct the data if it is inaccurate or delete the data if Apple is not required to retain it by law or for legitimate business purposes. We may decline to process requests that are unreasonably repetitive, require disproportionate technical effort, jeopardize the privacy of others, are extremely impractical, or for which access is not otherwise required by local law. Access, correction, or deletion requests can be made through the regional Privacy Contact Form.

Children

We do not knowingly collect personal information from children under 13. If we learn that we have collected the personal information of a child under 13 we will take steps to delete the information as soon as possible.

Location-Based Services

To provide location-based services on Apple products, Apple and our partners and licensees may collect, use, and share precise location data, including the real-time geographic location of your Apple computer or device. This location data is collected anonymously in a form that does not personally identify you and is used by Apple and our partners and licensees to provide and improve location-based products and services. For example, we may share geographic location with application providers when you opt in to their location services.

Some location-based services offered by Apple, such as the “Find My iPhone” feature, require your personal information for the feature to work.

Third-Party Sites and Services

Apple websites, products, applications, and services may contain links to third-party websites, products, and services. Our products and services may also use or offer products or services from third parties - for example, a third-party iPhone app. Information collected by third parties, which may include such things as location data or contact details, is governed by their privacy practices. We encourage you to learn about the privacy practices of those third parties.

International Users

Information you provide may be transferred or accessed by entities around the world as described in this Privacy Policy. Apple abides by the “safe harbor” framework set forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce regarding the collection, use, and retention of personal information collected by organizations in the European Economic Area and Switzerland. Learn more about the U.S. Department of Commerce Safe Harbor Program.

Please note that personal information regarding individuals who reside in a member state of the European Economic Area (EEA) is jointly controlled by Apple Sales International in Cork, Ireland, and Apple UK Limited in Uxbridge, United Kingdom. Personal information collected in the EEA when using iTunes is controlled by iTunes SARL in Luxembourg.

Our Companywide Commitment to Your Privacy

To make sure your personal information is secure, we communicate our privacy and security guidelines to Apple employees and strictly enforce privacy safeguards within the company.

Privacy Questions

If you have any questions or concerns about Apple’s Privacy Policy or data processing, please contact us.

Apple may update its Privacy Policy from time to time. When we change the policy in a material way, a notice will be posted on our website along with the updated Privacy Policy.

Apple Inc. 1 Infinite Loop, Cupertino, California, USA, 95014

Last updated: October 21, 2011

Privacy Policy
Last Update: Jul 13, 2010  Print

This policy describes the ways we collect, store, use and protect your personal information. You accept this policy when you sign up for or use our products, services or any other features, technologies or functionalities offered by us on our website or through any other means (collectively the “PayPal Services"). We may amend this policy at any time by posting a revised version on our website. The revised version will be effective at the time we post it. In addition, if the revised version includes a substantial change, we will provide you with 30 days’ prior notice by posting notice of the change on the "Policy Updates" page of our website.

Binding Corporate Rules
In addition to the privacy practices set out in this Privacy Policy, eBay Inc. has established a set of Corporate Rules (also referred to as Binding Corporate Rules), approved by a number of European Union privacy regulators. These Corporate Rules are a commitment by eBay Inc. to adequately protect your personal information regardless of where the data resides, and depending upon your location, may provide additional privacy rights through your privacy regulator or a court. If you would like additional information regarding the Corporate Rules contact us via the contact details below.


How we collect information about you
When you visit the PayPal website or use the PayPal Services, we collect your IP address and standard web log information, such as your browser type and the pages you accessed on our website.

If you open an account or use the PayPal Services, we may collect the following types of information:

Contact information - your name, address, phone, email, Skype ID and other similar information.
Financial information - the full bank account numbers and/or credit card numbers that you link to your PayPal account or give us when you use the PayPal Services.
Before permitting you to use the PayPal Services, we may require you to provide additional information we can use to verify your identity or address or manage risk, such as your date of birth, social security number or other information. We may also obtain information about you from third parties such as credit bureaus and identity verification services. 

When you are using the PayPal Services, we collect information about your transactions and your other activities on our website or using the PayPal Services and we may collect information about your computer or other access device for fraud prevention purposes. 

Finally, we may collect additional information from or about you in other ways such as contacts with our customer support team or results when you respond to a survey from interactions with members of the eBay Inc. corporate family, and from other companies.


How we use cookies
When you access our website, we, or companies we hire to track how our website is used, may place small data files called "cookies" on your computer. We and our service providers also use cookies to customize the PayPal Services, content and advertising; measure promotional effectiveness, and promote trust and safety. 

We send a "session cookie" to your computer when you log in to your account or otherwise use the PayPal Services. This type of cookie helps us to recognize you if you visit multiple pages on our site during the same session, so that we don’t need to ask you for your password on each page. Once you log out or close your browser, this cookie expires and no longer has any effect. 
We also use longer-lasting cookies for other purposes such as to display your e-mail address on our sign-in form, so that you don't need to retype the e-mail address each time you log in to your account. 

We encode our cookies so that only we can interpret the information stored in them. You are free to decline our cookies if your browser permits, but doing so may interfere with your use of our website. We may also collect information about your computer or other access device to mitigate risk and for fraud prevention purposes. 

You may encounter cookies from third parties when using the PayPal Services on websites that we do not control (for example, if you view a web page created by a third party or use an application developed by a third party, there may be a cookie placed by that web page or application.)


How we protect and store personal information
Throughout this policy, we use the term "personal information" to describe information that can be associated with a specific person and can be used to identify that person. We do not consider personal information to include information that has been anonymized so that it does not identify a specific user. 

We store and process your personal information on our computers in the US and elsewhere in the world where PayPal facilities are located, and we protect it by maintaining physical, electronic and procedural safeguards in compliance with applicable US federal and state regulations. We use computer safeguards such as firewalls and data encryption, we enforce physical access controls to our buildings and files, and we authorize access to personal information only for those employees who require it to fulfill their job responsibilities. 

How we use the personal information we collect
Our primary purpose in collecting personal information is to provide you with a secure, smooth, efficient, and customized experience. We may use your personal information to:

 

provide the PayPal Services and customer support you request;
process transactions and send notices about your transactions
resolve disputes, collect fees, and troubleshoot problems;
prevent potentially prohibited or illegal activities, and enforce our User Agreement;
customize, measure, and improve the PayPal Services and the content and layout of our website and applications;
deliver targeted marketing, service update notices, and promotional offers based on your communication preferences;
compare information for accuracy and verify it with third parties.

Marketing
We don't sell or rent your personal information to third parties for their marketing purposes without your explicit consent. We may combine your information with information we collect from other companies and use it to improve and personalize the PayPal Services, content and advertising. If you don't wish to receive marketing communications from us or participate in our ad-customization programs, simply indicate your preference by logging into your account and going to the Profile subtab under the My Account tab and adjusting your preferences under Account Information, or by following the directions provided with the communication or advertisement.


How we share personal information with other PayPal users
To process your payments, we may share some of your personal information with the person or company that you are paying or that is paying you. Your contact information, date of sign-up, the number of payments you have received from verified PayPal users, and whether you have verified control of a bank account are provided to other PayPal users who you transact with through PayPal. In addition, this and other information may also be shared with third parties when you use these third parties to access the PayPal Services. Unless you have agreed to it, these third parties are not allowed to use this information for any purpose other than to enable the PayPal Services. 

If you are buying goods or services and pay through PayPal, we may also provide the seller with your confirmed credit card billing address to help complete your transaction with the seller. The seller is not allowed to use this information to market their services to you unless you have agreed to it. If an attempt to pay your seller fails, or is later invalidated, we may also provide your seller with details of the unsuccessful payment. To facilitate dispute resolutions, we may provide a buyer with the seller’s address so that goods can be returned to the seller. 

We work with third parties, including merchants, to enable them to accept or facilitate payments from or to you using PayPal. In doing so, a third party may share information about you with us, such as your email address or mobile phone number to inform you that a payment is sent to you or when you attempt to pay that merchant or through that third party. We use this information to confirm to that you are a PayPal customer and that PayPal as a form of payment can be enabled, or where a payment is sent to you to send you notification that you have received a payment. Also, if you request that we validate your status as a PayPal customer with a third party, we will do so. Please note that merchants you buy from and contract with have their own privacy policies, and PayPal may not be held responsible for their operations, including, but not limited to, their information practices. 

Regardless, we will not disclose your credit card number or bank account number to anyone you have paid or who has paid you through PayPal or with the third parties that offer or use the PayPal Services, except with your express permission or if we are required to do so to comply with a credit card rules, subpoena or other legal process.


How we share personal information with other parties
We may share your personal information with:

Members of the eBay Inc. corporate family -- like eBay, Shopping.com or Bill Me Later, Inc.-- to provide joint content, products and services (like registration, transactions and customer support), to help detect and prevent potentially illegal acts and violations of our policies, and to guide decisions about their products, services and communications. Members of our corporate family will use this information to send you marketing communications only if you have requested their services.
Service providers under contract who help with parts of our business operations such as fraud prevention, bill collection, marketing, and technology services. Our contracts dictate that these service providers only use your information in connection with the services they perform for us and not for their own benefit.
Financial institutions that we partner with to jointly create and offer a product such as the PayPal Extras credit card where we share information with GE Capital to determine whether you should receive pre-approved offers for the PayPal Extras credit card. These financial institutions may only use this information to market PayPal-related products, unless you have given consent for other uses.
Credit bureaus to report account information, as permitted by law.
Banking partners as required by credit card association rules for inclusion on their list of terminated merchants (in the event that you meet their criteria which includes having PayPal close your PayPal Account due to your breach of the PayPal User Agreement).
Companies that we plan to merge with or be acquired by. (Should such a combination occur, we will require that the new combined entity follow this privacy policy with respect to your personal information. If your personal information could be used contrary to this policy, you will receive prior notice.)
Law enforcement, government officials, or other third parties when
we are compelled to do so by a subpoena, court order or similar legal procedure
we need to do so to comply with law or credit card rules
we believe in good faith that the disclosure of personal information is necessary to prevent physical harm or financial loss, to report suspected illegal activity, or to investigate violations of our User Agreement.
Other third parties with your consent or direction to do so.
PayPal will not sell or rent any of your personal information to third parties for their marketing purposes and only shares your personal information with third parties as described in this policy. 

If you open a PayPal account directly on a third party website or via a third party application, any information that you enter on that website or application (and not directly on a PayPal website) will be shared with the owner of the third party website or application and your information may be subject to their privacy policies. 
.


How you can restrict PayPal from sharing your personal information
Federal and state laws allow you to restrict the sharing of your personal information in certain instances. However, these laws also state that you cannot restrict other types of sharing. Because we have chosen to refrain from certain types of data sharing, the only type of sharing of your personal information that you may restrict is as follows: 

If you do not want PayPal to share your personal information with eBay companies for the purpose of marketing their products or with other financial institutions for the purpose of marketing our jointly offered products to you, please log in to your account and uncheck the box in the Information Sharing section of the Notifications and Information Sharing page. This page can be accessed by going to the Profile subtab under the My Account tab. 

You can also control how we use your contact information to market the PayPal Services to you in the notifications preferences. 

How you can access or change your personal information
You can review and edit your personal information at any time by logging in to your account and clicking the Profile subtab under the My Account tab.


How you can contact us about privacy questions
If you have questions or concerns regarding this policy, you should contact us by using this form or writing to us at PayPal, Attn: Privacy Department, P.O. Box 45950, Omaha, NE 68145-0950. PayPal maintains offices at 2211 N. First Street, San Jose, CA.

PayPal is a TRUSTe licensee. If after contacting PayPal our response to your privacy concern is unsatisfactory, then you may contact TRUSTe by completing the form located at: http://www.truste.org/consumers/watchdog_complaint.php. TRUSTe will serve as a liaison to PayPal to resolve your concerns regarding our privacy practices. Please note that TRUSTe will not intervene for any other type of issue with your account.

IMDb Privacy Notice

Last Updated, November 15, 2010. To see what has changed click here.

IMDb knows that you care how information about you is used and shared, and we appreciate your trust that we will do so carefully and sensibly. By visiting IMDb, you are accepting the practices described in this Privacy Notice.

What Personal Information About Users Does IMDb Gather?

The information we learn from users helps us personalize and continually improve your experience at IMDb. Here are the types of information we gather.

Information You Give Us: We receive and store any information you enter on our Web site or give us in any other way. Click here to see examples of what we collect. You can choose not to provide certain information, but then you might not be able to take advantage of many of our features. We use the information that you provide for such purposes as responding to your requests, customizing future browsing for you, improving our site, and communicating with you.
Automatic Information: We receive and store certain types of information whenever you interact with us. For example, like many Web sites, we use "cookies," and we obtain certain types of information when your Web browser accesses IMDb or advertisements and other content served by or on behalf of IMDb on other Web sites. Click here to see examples of the information we receive.
E-mail Communications: To help us make e-mails more useful and interesting, we often receive a confirmation when you open e-mail from IMDb if your computer supports such capabilities. We also compare our user list to lists received from other companies, in an effort to avoid sending unnecessary messages to our users. If you do not want to receive e-mail or other mail from us, please use our User Administration pages to adjust your preferences.
Information from Other Sources: We might receive information about you from other sources and add it to our account information. Click here to see examples of the information we receive.
What About Cookies?

Cookies are alphanumeric identifiers that we transfer to your computer's hard drive through your Web browser to enable our systems to recognize your browser and to provide features such as My Movies, local show times, and browsing preferences.
The "help" portion of the toolbar on most browsers will tell you how to prevent your browser from accepting new cookies, how to have the browser notify you when you receive a new cookie, or how to disable cookies altogether. Additionally, you can disable or delete similar data used by browser add-ons, such as Flash cookies, by changing the add-on's settings or visiting the Web site of its manufacturer. However, because cookies allow you to take full advantage of some of IMDb's essential features, we recommend that you leave them turned on.
We use web beacons (also known as “action tags” or “single-pixel gifs”) and other technologies to measure the effectiveness of certain site features and to conduct research and analysis. We also allow third parties to place web beacons and other technologies on our site to conduct research and analysis, but we do not provide personal information to such third parties.
Does IMDb Share the Information It Receives?

Information about our users is an important part of our business, and we are not in the business of selling it to others. We share user information with our parent corporation (Amazon.com, Inc.), the subsidiaries it controls, and as described below.

Affiliated Businesses We Do Not Control: We work closely with our affiliated businesses. In some cases, we will include offerings from these businesses on IMDb. In other cases, we may include joint offerings from IMDb and these businesses on IMDb. You can tell when another business is involved in the offering, and we share user information related to those offerings with that business.
Agents: We employ other companies and individuals to perform functions on our behalf. Examples include sending e-mail, removing repetitive information from user lists, analyzing data, and providing marketing assistance. They have access to personal information needed to perform their functions, but may not use it for other purposes.
Promotional Offers: Sometimes we send offers to selected groups of IMDb users on behalf of other businesses. When we do this, we do not give that business your name and e-mail address. If you do not want to receive such offers, please use our User Administration pages to adjust your preferences.
Business Transfers: As we continue to develop our business, we might sell or buy additional services or business units. In such transactions, user information generally is transferred along with the rest of the service or business unit. Also, in the event that IMDb, Inc., or substantially all of its assets are acquired, user information will of course be included in the transaction.
Protection of IMDb and Others: We release account and other personal information when we believe release is appropriate to comply with law; enforce or apply our Terms and Conditions of Use and other agreements; or protect the rights, property, or safety of IMDb, our users, or others. This includes exchanging information with other companies and organizations for fraud protection and credit risk reduction. Obviously, however, this does not include selling, renting, sharing, or otherwise disclosing personally identifiable information from customers for commercial purposes in violation of the commitments set forth in this Privacy Notice.
With Your Consent: Other than as set out above, you will always receive notice when information about you might go to third parties, and you will have an opportunity to choose not to share the information.
What About Third-Party Advertisers?

Our site includes third-party advertising and links to other websites. We do not provide any personally identifiable customer information to these advertisers or third-party websites.

These third-party websites and advertisers, or Internet advertising companies working on their behalf, sometimes use technology to send (or "serve") the advertisements that appear on our website directly to your browser. They automatically receive your IP address when this happens. They may also use cookies, JavaScript, web beacons (also known as action tags or single-pixel gifs), and other technologies to measure the effectiveness of their ads and to personalize advertising content. We do not have access to or control over cookies or other features that they may use, and the information practices of these advertisers and third-party websites are not covered by this Privacy Notice. Please contact them directly for more information about their privacy practices. In addition, the Network Advertising Initiative offers useful information about Internet advertising companies (also called "ad networks" or "network advertisers"), including information about how to opt-out of their information collection.

IMDb also displays personalized third-party advertising based on personal information about users, such as information you submit to us about movies you own or have watched.  Click here for more information about the personal information that we gather. Although IMDb does not provide any personal information to advertisers, advertisers (including ad-serving companies) may assume that users who interact with or click on a personalized advertisement meet their criteria to personalize the ad (for example, users in the northwestern United States who bought, watched, or browsed for romantic comedies). If you do not want us to use personal information that we gather to allow third parties to personalize advertisements we display to you, please adjust your Advertising Preferences.

How Secure Is Information About Me?

If you use our subscription service, we work to protect the security of your subscription information during transmission by using Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) software, which encrypts information you input.

It is important for you to protect against unauthorized access to your password and to your computer. Be sure to sign off when finished using a shared computer.

What Choices and Access Do I Have?

As discussed above, you can always choose not to provide information, even though it might be needed to take advantage of such IMDb features as My Movies and local show times.
You can add or update certain information, such as your e-mail address, by using our User Administration pages. When you update information, we usually keep a copy of the prior version for our records.
If you do not want to receive e-mail or other mail from us, please use our User Administration pages to adjust your preferences. (If you do not want to receive legal notices from us, such as this Privacy Notice, those notices will still govern your use of IMDb, and it is your responsibility to review them for changes.)
If you do not want us to use personal information that we gather to allow third parties to personalize advertisements we display to you, please adjust your Advertising Preferences.
The "help" portion of the toolbar on most browsers will tell you how to prevent your browser from accepting new cookies, how to have the browser notify you when you receive a new cookie, or how to disable cookies altogether. Additionally, you can disable or delete similar data used by browser add-ons, such as Flash cookies, by changing the add-on's settings or visiting the Web site of its manufacturer. However, because cookies allow you to take advantage of some of IMDb's essential features, we recommend that you leave them turned on.
Children

IMDb is not intended for use by children under the age of 13. If you are under 13, you may not submit information about yourself to IMDb.

Conditions of Use, Notices, and Revisions

If you choose to visit IMDb, your visit and any dispute over privacy is subject to this Notice and our Terms and Conditions of Use, including limitations on damages, resolution of disputes, and application of the law of the state of Washington. If you have any concern about privacy at IMDb, please send us a thorough description to our help desk, and we will try to resolve it. Our business changes constantly. This Notice and the Terms and Conditions of Use will change also, and use of information that we gather now is subject to the Privacy Notice in effect at the time of use. We may e-mail periodic reminders of our notices and conditions, unless you have instructed us not to, but you should check our Web site frequently to see recent changes. Unless stated otherwise, our current Privacy Notice applies to all information that we have about you and your account.  We stand behind the promises we make, however, and will never materially change our policies and practices to make them less protective of customer information collected in the past without the consent of affected customers.